
Helaman 7:7
 7 Oh, that I could have had my days in the days when my father
Nephi first came out of the land of Jerusalem, that I could have
joyed with him in the promised land; then were his people easy to
be entreated, firm to keep the commandments of God, and slow to
be led to do iniquity; and they were quick to hearken unto the
words of the Lord--

Helaman 7:8
 8 Yea, if my days could have been in those days, then would my
soul have had joy in the righteousness of my brethren.

Helaman 7:9
 9 But behold, I am consigned that these are my days, and that my
soul shall be filled with sorrow because of this the wickedness
of my brethren.

Behold, why have ye gathered yourselves together? That I
may tell you of your iniquities?

Helaman 7:14
 14 Yea, because I have got upon my tower that I might pour out
my soul unto my God, because of the exceeding sorrow of my heart,
which is because of your iniquities!

Helaman 7:15
 15 And because of my mourning and lamentation ye have gathered
yourselves together, and do marvel; yea, and ye have great need
to marvel; yea, ye ought to marvel because ye are given away that
the devil has got so great hold upon your hearts.

Helaman 7:16
 16 Yea, how could you have given way to the enticing of him who
is seeking to hurl away your souls down to everlasting misery and
endless wo?

Helaman 7:17
 17 O repent ye, repent ye! Why will ye die? Turn ye, turn ye
unto the Lord your God. Why has he forsaken you?

Helaman 7:18
 18 It is because you have hardened your hearts; yea, ye will not
hearken unto the voice of the good shepherd; yea, ye have
provoked him to anger against you.

Helaman 7:19
 19 And behold, instead of gathering you, except ye will repent,
behold, he shall scatter you forth that ye shall become meat for
dogs and wild beasts.

Helaman 7:20
 20 O, how could you have forgotten your God in the very day that
he has delivered you?

Helaman 7:21
 21 But behold, it is to get gain, to be praised of men, yea, and
that ye might get gold and silver. And ye have set your hearts
upon the riches and the vain things of this world, for the which
ye do murder, and plunder, and steal, and bear false witness
against your neighbor, and do all manner of iniquity.

Helaman 7:22
 22 And for this cause wo shall come unto you except ye shall
repent. For if ye will not repent, behold, this great city, and
also all those great cities which are round about, which are in
the land of our possession, shall be taken away that ye shall
have no place in them; for behold, the Lord will not grant unto
you strength, as he has hitherto done, to withstand against your
enemies.

Helaman 7:23
 23 For behold, thus saith the Lord:

Now therefore, I would that ye should behold, my brethren, that
it shall be better for the Lamanites than for you except ye shall
repent.

Helaman 7:24
 24 For behold, they are more righteous than you, for they have
not sinned against that great knowledge which ye have received;
therefore the Lord will be merciful unto them; yea, he will
lengthen out their days and increase their seed, even when thou
shalt be utterly destroyed except thou shalt repent.

Helaman 7:25
 25 Yea, wo be unto you because of that great abomination which
has come among you; and ye have united yourselves unto it, yea,
to that secret band which was established by Gadianton!

Helaman 7:26
 26 Yea, wo shall come unto you because of that pride which ye
have suffered to enter your hearts, which has lifted you up
beyond that which is good because of your exceedingly great
riches!

Helaman 7:27
 27 Yea, wo be unto you because of your wickedness and
abominations!

Helaman 7:28
 28 And except ye repent ye shall perish; yea, even your lands
shall be taken from you, and ye shall be destroyed from off the
face of the earth.

Helaman 7:29
 29 Behold now, I do not say that these things shall be, of
myself, because it is not of myself that I know these things; but
behold, I know that these things are true because the Lord God
has made them known unto me, therefore I testify that they shall
be.

Behold, my brethren, have ye not read that God gave power unto
one man, even Moses, to smite upon the waters of the Red Sea, and
they parted hither and thither, insomuch that the Israelites, who
were our fathers, came through upon dry ground, and the waters
closed upon the armies of the Egyptians and swallowed them up?

Helaman 8:12
 12 And now behold, if God gave unto this man such power, then
why should ye dispute among yourselves, and say that he hath
given unto me no power whereby I may know concerning the
judgments that shall come upon you except ye repent?

Helaman 8:13
 13 But, behold, ye not only deny my words, but ye also deny all
the words which have been spoken by our fathers, and also the
words which were spoken by this man, Moses, who had such great
power given unto him, yea, the words which he hath spoken
concerning the coming of the Messiah.

Helaman 8:14
 14 Yea, did he not bear record that the Son of God should come? 
And as he lifted up the brazen serpent in the wilderness, even so
shall he be lifted up who should come.

Helaman 8:15
 15 And as many as should look upon that serpent should live,
even so as many as should look upon the Son of God with faith,
having a contrite spirit, might live, even unto that life which
is eternal.

Helaman 8:16
 16 And now behold, Moses did not only testify of these things,
but also all the holy prophets, from his days even to the days of
Abraham.

Helaman 8:17
 17 Yea, and behold, Abraham saw of his coming, and was filled
with gladness and did rejoice.

Helaman 8:18
 18 Yea, and behold I say unto you, that Abraham not only knew of
these things, but there were many before the days of Abraham who
were called by the order of God; yea, even after the order of his
Son; and this that it should be shown unto the people, a great
many thousand years before his coming, that even redemption
should come unto them.

Helaman 8:19
 19 And now I would that ye should know, that even since the days
of Abraham there have been many prophets that have testified
these things; yea, behold, the prophet Zenos did testify boldly;
for the which he was slain.

Helaman 8:20
 20 And behold, also Zenock, and also Ezias, and also Isaiah, and
Jeremiah, (Jeremiah being that same prophet who testified of the
destruction of Jerusalem) and now we know that Jerusalem was
destroyed according to the words of Jeremiah.  O then why not the
Son of God come, according to his prophecy?

Helaman 8:21
 21 And now will you dispute that Jerusalem was destroyed?  Will
ye say that the sons of Zedekiah were not slain, all except it
were Mulek?  Yea, and do ye not behold that the seed of Zedekiah
are with us, and they were driven out of the land of Jerusalem? 
But behold, this is not all--

Helaman 8:22
 22 Our father Lehi was driven out of Jerusalem because he
testified of these things.  Nephi also testified of these things,
and also almost all of our fathers, even down to this time; yea,
they have testified of the coming of Christ, and have looked
forward, and have rejoiced in his day which is to come.

Helaman 8:23
 23 And behold, he is God, and he is with them, and he did
manifest himself unto them, that they were redeemed by him; and
they gave unto him glory, because of that which is to come.

Helaman 8:24
 24 And now, seeing ye know these things and cannot deny them
except ye shall lie, therefore in this ye have sinned, for ye
have rejected all these things, notwithstanding so many evidences
which ye have received; yea, even ye have received all things,
both things in heaven, and all things which are in the earth, as
a witness that they are true.

Helaman 8:25
 25 But behold, ye have rejected the truth, and rebelled against
your holy God; and even at this time, instead of laying up for
yourselves treasures in heaven, where nothing doth corrupt, and
where nothing can come which is unclean, ye are heaping up for
yourselves wrath against the day of judgment.

Helaman 8:26
 26 Yea, even at this time ye are ripening, because of your
murders and your fornication and wickedness, for everlasting
destruction; yea, and except ye repent it will come unto you
soon.

Helaman 8:27
 27 Yea, behold it is now even at your doors; yea, go ye in unto
the judgment-seat, and search; and behold, your judge is
murdered, and he lieth in his blood; and he hath been murdered by
his brother, who seeketh to sit in the judgment-seat.

Helaman 8:28
 28 And behold, they both belong to your secret band, whose
author is Gadianton and the evil one who seeketh to destroy the
souls of men.


O ye fools, ye uncircumcised of
heart, ye blind, and ye stiffnecked people, do ye know how long
the Lord your God will suffer you that ye shall go on in this
your way of sin?

Helaman 9:22
 22 O ye ought to begin to howl and mourn, because of the great
destruction which at this time doth await you, except ye shall
repent.

Helaman 9:23
 23 Behold ye say that I have agreed with a man that he should
murder Seezoram, our chief judge.  But behold, I say unto you,
that this is because I have testified unto you that ye might know
concerning this thing; yea, even for a witness unto you, that I
did know of the wickedness and abominations which are among you.

Helaman 9:24
 24 And because I have done this, ye say that I have agreed with
a man that he should do this thing; yea, because I showed unto
you this sign ye are angry with me, and seek to destroy my life.

Helaman 9:25
 25 And now behold, I will show unto you another sign, and see if
ye will in this thing seek to destroy me.

Helaman 9:26
 26 Behold I say unto you: Go to the house of Seantum, who is the
brother of Seezoram, and say unto him--

Helaman 9:27
 27 Has Nephi, the pretended prophet, who doth prophesy so much
evil concerning this people, agreed with thee, in the which ye
have murdered Seezoram, who is your brother?

Helaman 9:28
 28 And behold, he shall say unto you, Nay.

Helaman 9:29
 29 And ye shall say unto him: Have ye murdered your brother?

Helaman 9:30
 30 And he shall stand with fear, and wist not what to say.  And
behold, he shall deny unto you; and he shall make as if he were
astonished; nevertheless, he shall declare unto you that he is
innocent.

Helaman 9:31
 31 But behold, ye shall examine him, and ye shall find blood
upon the skirts of his cloak.

Helaman 9:32
 32 And when ye have seen this, ye shall say: From whence cometh
this blood?  Do we not know that it is the blood of your brother?

Helaman 9:33
 33 And then shall he tremble, and shall look pale, even as if
death had come upon him.

Helaman 9:34
 34 And then shall ye say: Because of this fear and this paleness
which has come upon your face, behold, we know that thou art
guilty.

Helaman 9:35
 35 And then shall greater fear come upon him; and then shall he
confess unto you, and deny no more that he has done this murder.

Helaman 9:36
 36 And then shall he say unto you, that I, Nephi, know nothing
concerning the matter save it were given unto me by the power of
God.  And then shall ye know that I am an honest man, and that I
am sent unto you from God.


Except ye repent, thus saith the Lord, ye shall be
smitten even unto destruction.


Helaman 11:4
 4 O Lord, do not suffer that this people shall be destroyed by
the sword; but O Lord, rather let there be a famine in the land,
to stir them up in remembrance of the Lord their God, and perhaps
they will repent and turn unto thee.


Helaman 11:10
 10 O Lord, behold this people repenteth; and they have swept
away the band of Gadianton from amongst them insomuch that they
have become extinct, and they have concealed their secret plans
in the earth.

Helaman 11:11
 11 Now, O Lord, because of this their humility wilt thou turn
away thine anger, and let thine anger be appeased in the
destruction of those wicked men whom thou hast already destroyed.

Helaman 11:12
 12 O Lord, wilt thou turn away thine anger, yea, thy fierce
anger, and cause that this famine may cease in this land.

Helaman 11:13
 13 O Lord, wilt thou hearken unto me, and cause that it may be
done according to my words, and send forth rain upon the face of
the earth, that she may bring forth her fruit, and her grain in
the season of grain.

Helaman 11:14
 14 O Lord, thou didst hearken unto my words when I said, Let
there be a famine, that the pestilence of the sword might cease;
and I know that thou wilt, even at this time, hearken unto my
words, for thou saidst that: If this people repent I will spare
them.

Helaman 11:15
 15 Yea, O Lord, and thou seest that they have repented, because
of the famine and the pestilence and destruction which has come
unto them.

Helaman 11:16
 16 And now, O Lord, wilt thou turn away thine anger, and try
again if they will serve thee?  And if so, O Lord, thou canst
bless them according to thy words which thou hast said.


