
Omni 1:12
 12 Behold, I am Amaleki, the son of Abinadom.  Behold, I will
speak unto you somewhat concerning Mosiah, who was made king over
the land of Zarahemla; for behold, he being warned of the Lord
that he should flee out of the land of Nephi, and as many as
would hearken unto the voice of the Lord should also depart out
of the land with him, into the wilderness--

Omni 1:13
 13 And it came to pass that he did according as the Lord had
commanded him.  And they departed out of the land into the
wilderness, as many as would hearken unto the voice of the Lord;
and they were led by many preachings and prophesyings.  And they
were admonished continually by the word of God; and they were led
by the power of his arm, through the wilderness, until they came
down into the land which is called the land of Zarahemla.

Omni 1:14
 14 And they discovered a people, who were called the people of
Zarahemla.  Now, there was great rejoicing among the people of
Zarahemla; and also Zarahemla did rejoice exceedingly, because
the Lord had sent the people of Mosiah with the plates of brass
which contained the record of the Jews.

Omni 1:15
 15 Behold, it came to pass that Mosiah discovered that the
people of Zarahemla came out from Jerusalem at the time that
Zedekiah, king of Judah, was carried away captive into Babylon.

Omni 1:16
 16 And they journeyed in the wilderness, and were brought by the
hand of the Lord across the great waters, into the land where
Mosiah discovered them; and they had dwelt there from that time
forth.

Omni 1:17
 17 And at the time that Mosiah discovered them, they had become
exceedingly numerous.  Nevertheless, they had had many wars and
serious contentions, and had fallen by the sword from time to
time; and their language had become corrupted; and they had
brought no records with them; and they denied the being of their
Creator; and Mosiah, nor the people of Mosiah, could understand
them.

Omni 1:18
 18 But it came to pass that Mosiah caused that they should be
taught in his language.  And it came to pass that after they were
taught in the language of Mosiah, Zarahemla gave a genealogy of
his fathers, according to his memory; and they are written, but
not in these plates.

Omni 1:19
 19 And it came to pass that the people of Zarahemla, and of
Mosiah, did unite together; and Mosiah was appointed to be their
king.

Omni 1:20
 20 And it came to pass in the days of Mosiah, there was a large
stone brought unto him with engravings on it; and he did
interpret the engravings by the gift and power of God.

Omni 1:21
 21 And they gave an account of one Coriantumr, and the slain of
his people.  And Coriantumr was discovered by the people of
Zarahemla; and he dwelt with them for the space of nine moons.

Omni 1:22
 22 It also spake a few words concerning his fathers.  And his
first parents came out from the tower, at the time the Lord
confounded the language of the people; and the severity of the
Lord fell upon them according to his judgments, which are just;
and their bones lay scattered in the land northward.

Omni 1:23
 23 Behold, I, Amaleki, was born in the days of Mosiah; and I
have lived to see his death; and Benjamin, his son, reigneth in
his stead.

Omni 1:24
 24 And behold, I have seen, in the days of king Benjamin, a
serious war and much bloodshed between the Nephites and the
Lamanites.  But behold, the Nephites did obtain much advantage
over them; yea, insomuch that king Benjamin did drive them out of
the land of Zarahemla.

Omni 1:25
 25 And it came to pass that I began to be old; and, having no
seed, and knowing king Benjamin to be a just man before the Lord,
wherefore, I shall deliver up these plates unto him, exhorting
all men to come unto God, the Holy One of Israel, and believe in
prophesying, and in revelations, and in the ministering of
angels, and in the gift of speaking with tongues, and in the gift
of interpreting languages, and in all things which are good; for
there is nothing which is good save it comes from the Lord; and
that which is evil cometh from the devil.

Omni 1:26
 26 And now, my beloved brethren, I would that ye should come
unto Christ, who is the Holy One of Israel, and partake of his
salvation, and the power of his redemption.  Yea, come unto him,
and offer your whole souls as an offering unto him, and continue
in fasting and praying, and endure to the end; and as the Lord
liveth ye will be saved.

Omni 1:27
 27 And now I would speak somewhat concerning a certain number
who went up into the wilderness to return to the land of Nephi;
for there was a large number who were desirous to possess the
land of their inheritance.

Omni 1:28
 28 Wherefore, they went up into the wilderness.  And their
leader being a strong and mighty man, and a stiffnecked man,
wherefore he caused a contention among them; and they were all
slain, save fifty, in the wilderness, and they returned again to
the land of Zarahemla.

Omni 1:29
 29 And it came to pass that they also took others to a
considerable number, and took their journey again into the
wilderness.

Omni 1:30
 30 And I, Amaleki, had a brother, who also went with them; and I
have not since known concerning them.  And I am about to lie down
in my grave; and these plates are full.  And I make an end of my
speaking.