
Alma 54:16
 16 I am Ammoron, the king of the Lamanites; I am the brother of
Amalickiah whom ye have murdered.  Behold, I will avenge his
blood upon you, yea, and I will come upon you with my armies for
I fear not your threatenings.

Alma 54:17
 17 For behold, your fathers did wrong their brethren, insomuch
that they did rob them of their right to the government when it
rightly belonged unto them.

Alma 54:18
 18 And now behold, if ye will lay down your arms, and subject
yourselves to be governed by those to whom the government doth
rightly belong, then will I cause that my people shall lay down
their weapons and shall be at war no more.

Alma 54:19
 19 Behold, ye have breathed out many threatenings against me and
my people; but behold, we fear not your threatenings.

Alma 54:20
 20 Nevertheless, I will grant to exchange prisoners according to
your request, gladly, that I may preserve my food for my men of
war; and we will wage a war which shall be eternal, either to the
subjecting the Nephites to our authority or to their eternal
extinction.

Alma 54:21
 21 And as concerning that God whom ye say we have rejected,
behold, we know not such a being; neither do ye; but if it so be
that there is such a thing, we know not but that he hath made us
as well as you.

Alma 54:22
 22 And if it so be that there is a devil and a hell, behold will
he not send you there to dwell with my brother whom ye have
murdered, whom ye have hinted that he hath gone to such a place? 
But behold these things matter not.

Alma 54:23
 23 I am Ammoron, and a descendant of Zoram, whom your fathers
pressed and brought out of Jerusalem.

Alma 54:24
 24 And behold now, I am a bold Lamanite; behold, this war hath
been waged to avenge their wrongs, and to maintain and to obtain
their rights to the government; and I close my epistle to Moroni.






