I thank my God, my beloved people, that
our great God has in goodness sent these our brethren, the
Nephites, unto us to preach unto us, and to convince us of the
traditions of our wicked fathers.

Alma 24:8
 8 And behold, I thank my great God that he has given us a
portion of his Spirit to soften our hearts, that we have opened a
correspondence with these brethren, the Nephites.

Alma 24:9
 9 And behold, I also thank my God, that by opening this
correspondence we have been convinced of our sins, and of the
many murders which we have committed.

Alma 24:10
 10 And I also thank my God, yea, my great God, that he hath
granted unto us that we might repent of these things, and also
that he hath forgiven us of those our many sins and murders which
we have committed, and taken away the guilt from our hearts,
through the merits of his Son.

Alma 24:11
 11 And now behold, my brethren, since it has been all that we
could do, (as we were the most lost of all mankind) to repent of
all our sins and the many murders which we have committed, and to
get God to take them away from our hearts, for it was all we
could do to repent sufficiently before God that he would take
away our stain--

Alma 24:12
 12 Now, my best beloved brethren, since God hath taken away our
stains, and our swords have become bright, then let us stain our
swords no more with the blood of our brethren.

Alma 24:13
 13 Behold, I say unto you, Nay, let us retain our swords that
they be not stained with the blood of our brethren; for perhaps,
if we should stain our swords again they can no more be washed
bright through the blood of the Son of our great God, which shall
be shed for the atonement of our sins.

Alma 24:14
 14 And the great God has had mercy on us, and made these things
known unto us that we might not perish; yea, and he has made
these things known unto us beforehand, because he loveth our
souls as well as he loveth our children; therefore, in his mercy
he doth visit us by his angels, that the plan of salvation might
be made known unto us as well as unto future generations.

Alma 24:15
 15 Oh, how merciful is our God!  And now behold, since it has
been as much as we could do to get our stains taken away from us,
and our swords are made bright, let us hide them away that they
may be kept bright, as a testimony to our God at the last day, or
at the day that we shall be brought to stand before him to be
judged, that we have not stained our swords in the blood of our
brethren since he imparted his word unto us and has made us clean
thereby.

Alma 24:16
 16 And now, my brethren, if our brethren seek to destroy us,
behold, we will hide away our swords, yea, even we will bury them
deep in the earth, that they may be kept bright, as a testimony
that we have never used them, at the last day; and if our
brethren destroy us, behold, we shall go to our God and shall be
saved.



Behold, the Nephites will destroy
us, because of the many murders and sins we have committed
against them.


Yea, if the Lord saith unto us go,
we will go down unto our brethren, and we will be their slaves
until we repair unto them the many murders and sins which we have
committed against them.


Inquire of the Lord, and if he
saith unto us go, we will go; otherwise we will perish in the
land.











