I will not show unto the
wicked of my strength, to one more than the other, save it be
unto those that repent of their sins, and hearken unto my words.





Helaman 10:4
 4 Blessed art thou, Nephi, for those things which thou hast
done; for I have beheld how thou hast with unwearyingness
declared the word, which I have given unto thee, unto this
people.  And thou hast not feared them, and hast not sought thine
own life, but hast sought my will, and to keep my commandments.
Helaman 10:5
 5 And now, because thou hast done this with such unwearyingness,
behold, I will bless thee forever; and I will make thee mighty in
word and in deed, in faith and in works; yea, even that all
things shall be done unto thee according to thy word, for thou
shalt not ask that which is contrary to my will.

Helaman 10:6
 6 Behold, thou art Nephi, and I am God.  Behold, I declare it
unto thee in the presence of mine angels, that ye shall have
power over this people, and shall smite the earth with famine,
and with pestilence, and destruction, according to the wickedness
of this people.

Helaman 10:7
 7 Behold, I give unto you power, that whatsoever ye shall seal
on earth shall be sealed in heaven; and whatsoever ye shall loose
on earth shall be loosed in heaven; and thus shall ye have power
among this people.

Helaman 10:8
 8 And thus, if ye shall say unto this temple it shall be rent in
twain, it shall be done.

Helaman 10:9
 9 And if ye shall say unto this mountain, Be thou cast down and
become smooth, it shall be done.

Helaman 10:10
 10 And behold, if ye shall say that God shall smite this people,
it shall come to pass.

Helaman 10:11
 11 And now behold, I command you, that ye shall go and declare
unto this people, that thus saith the Lord God, who is the
Almighty: Except ye repent ye shall be smitten, even unto
destruction.








