
3 Nephi 9:2
 2 Wo, wo, wo unto this people; wo unto the inhabitants of the
whole earth except they shall repent; for the devil laugheth, and
his angels rejoice, because of the slain of the fair sons and
daughters of my people; and it is because of their iniquity and
abominations that they are fallen!

3 Nephi 9:3
 3 Behold, that great city Zarahemla have I burned with fire, and
the inhabitants thereof.

3 Nephi 9:4
 4 And behold, that great city Moroni have I caused to be sunk in
the depths of the sea, and the inhabitants thereof to be drowned.

3 Nephi 9:5
 5 And behold, that great city Moronihah have I covered with
earth, and the inhabitants thereof, to hide their iniquities and
their abominations from before my face, that the blood of the
prophets and the saints shall not come any more unto me against
them.

3 Nephi 9:6
 6 And behold, the city of Gilgal have I caused to be sunk, and
the inhabitants thereof to be buried up in the depths of the
earth;

3 Nephi 9:7
 7 Yea, and the city of Onihah and the inhabitants thereof, and
the city of Mocum and the inhabitants thereof, and the city of
Jerusalem and the inhabitants thereof; and waters have I caused
to come up in the stead thereof, to hide their wickedness and
abominations from before my face, that the blood of the prophets
and the saints shall not come up any more unto me against them.

3 Nephi 9:8
 8 And behold, the city of Gadiandi, and the city of Gadiomnah,
and the city of Jacob, and the city of Gimgimno, all these have I
caused to be sunk, and made hills and valleys in the places
thereof; and the inhabitants thereof have I buried up in the
depths of the earth, to hide their wickedness and abominations
from before my face, that the blood of the prophets and the
saints should not come up any more unto me against them.

3 Nephi 9:9
 9 And behold, that great city Jacobugath, which was inhabited by
the people of king Jacob, have I caused to be burned with fire
because of their sins and their wickedness, which was above all
the wickedness of the whole earth, because of their secret
murders and combinations; for it was they that did destroy the
peace of my people and the government of the land; therefore I
did cause them to be burned, to destroy them from before my face,
that the blood of the prophets and the saints should not come up
unto me any more against them.

3 Nephi 9:10
 10 And behold, the city of Laman, and the city of Josh, and the
city of Gad, and the city of Kishkumen, have I caused to be
burned with fire, and the inhabitants thereof, because of their
wickedness in casting out the prophets, and stoning those whom I
did send to declare unto them concerning their wickedness and
their abominations.

3 Nephi 9:11
 11 And because they did cast them all out, that there were none
righteous among them, I did send down fire and destroy them, that
their wickedness and abominations might be hid from before my
face, that the blood of the prophets and the saints whom I sent
among them might not cry unto me from the ground against them.

3 Nephi 9:12
 12 And many great destructions have I caused to come upon this
land, and upon this people, because of their wickedness and their
abominations.

3 Nephi 9:13
 13 O all ye that are spared because ye were more righteous than
they, will ye not now return unto me, and repent of your sins,
and be converted, that I may heal you?

3 Nephi 9:14
 14 Yea, verily I say unto you, if ye will come unto me ye shall
have eternal life.  Behold, mine arm of mercy is extended towards
you, and whosoever will come, him will I receive; and blessed are
those who come unto me.

3 Nephi 9:15
 15 Behold, I am Jesus Christ the Son of God.  I created the
heavens and the earth, and all things that in them are.  I was
with the Father from the beginning.  I am in the Father, and the
Father in me; and in me hath the Father glorified his name.

3 Nephi 9:16
 16 I came unto my own, and my own received me not.  And the
scriptures concerning my coming are fulfilled.

3 Nephi 9:17
 17 And as many as have received me, to them have I given to
become the sons of God; and even so will I to as many as shall
believe on my name, for behold, by me redemption cometh, and in
me is the law of Moses fulfilled.

3 Nephi 9:18
 18 I am the light and the life of the world.  I am Alpha and
Omega, the beginning and the end.

3 Nephi 9:19
 19 And ye shall offer up unto me no more the shedding of blood;
yea, your sacrifices and your burnt offerings shall be done away,
for I will accept none of your sacrifices and your burnt
offerings.

3 Nephi 9:20
 20 And ye shall offer for a sacrifice unto me a broken heart and
a contrite spirit.  And whoso cometh unto me with a broken heart
and a contrite spirit, him will I baptize with fire and with the
Holy Ghost, even as the Lamanites, because of their faith in me
at the time of their conversion, were baptized with fire and with
the Holy Ghost, and they knew it not.

3 Nephi 9:21
 21 Behold, I have come unto the world to bring redemption unto
the world, to save the world from sin.

3 Nephi 9:22
 22 Therefore, whoso repenteth and cometh unto me as a little
child, him will I receive, for of such is the kingdom of God. 
Behold, for such I have laid down my life, and have taken it up
again; therefore repent, and come unto me ye ends of the earth,
and be saved.



3 Nephi 10:4
 4 O ye people of these great cities which have fallen, who are
descendants of Jacob, yea, who are of the house of Israel, how
oft have I gathered you as a hen gathereth her chickens under her
wings, and have nourished you.

3 Nephi 10:5
 5 And again, how oft would I have gathered you as a hen
gathereth her chickens under her wings, yea, O ye people of the
house of Israel, who have fallen; yea, O ye people of the house
of Israel, ye that dwell at Jerusalem, as ye that have fallen;
yea, how oft would I have gathered you as a hen gathereth her
chickens, and ye would not.

3 Nephi 10:6
 6 O ye house of Israel whom I have spared, how oft will I gather
you as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, if ye will
repent and return unto me with full purpose of heart.

3 Nephi 10:7
 7 But if not, O house of Israel, the places of your dwellings
shall become desolate until the time of the fulfilling of the
covenant to your fathers.


3 Nephi 11:10
 10 Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified shall
come into the world.

3 Nephi 11:11
 11 And behold, I am the light and the life of the world; and I
have drunk out of that bitter cup which the Father hath given me,
and have glorified the Father in taking upon me the sins of the
world, in the which I have suffered the will of the Father in all
things from the beginning.



3 Nephi 11:14
 14 Arise and come forth unto me, that ye may thrust your hands
into my side, and also that ye may feel the prints of the nails
in my hands and in my feet, that ye may know that I am the God of
Israel, and the God of the whole earth, and have been slain for
the sins of the world.


On this wise shall ye baptize; and there shall be no
disputations among you.

3 Nephi 11:23
 23 Verily I say unto you, that whoso repenteth of his sins
through your words and desireth to be baptized in my name, on
this wise shall ye baptize them--Behold, ye shall go down and
stand in the water, and in my name shall ye baptize them.

3 Nephi 11:24
 24 And now behold, these are the words which ye shall say,
calling them by name, saying:

3 Nephi 11:25
 25 Having authority given me of Jesus Christ, I baptize you in
the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. 
Amen.

3 Nephi 11:26
 26 And then shall ye immerse them in the water, and come forth
again out of the water.

3 Nephi 11:27
 27 And after this manner shall ye baptize in my name; for
behold, verily I say unto you, that the Father, and the Son, and
the Holy Ghost are one; and I am in the Father, and the Father in
me, and the Father and I are one.

3 Nephi 11:28
 28 And according as I have commanded you thus shall ye baptize. 
And there shall be no disputations among you, as there have
hitherto been; neither shall there be disputations among you
concerning the points of my doctrine, as there have hitherto
been.

3 Nephi 11:29
 29 For verily, verily I say unto you, he that hath the spirit of
contention is not of me, but is of the devil, who is the father
of contention, and he stirreth up the hearts of men to contend
with anger, one with another.

3 Nephi 11:30
 30 Behold, this is not my doctrine, to stir up the hearts of men
with anger, one against another; but this is my doctrine, that
such things should be done away.

3 Nephi 11:31
 31 Behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, I will declare unto
you my doctrine.

3 Nephi 11:32
 32 And this is my doctrine, and it is the doctrine which the
Father hath given unto me; and I bear record of the Father, and
the Father beareth record of me, and the Holy Ghost beareth
record of the Father and me; and I bear record that the Father
commandeth all men, everywhere, to repent and believe in me.

3 Nephi 11:33
 33 And whoso believeth in me, and is baptized, the same shall be
saved; and they are they who shall inherit the kingdom of God.

3 Nephi 11:34
 34 And whoso believeth not in me, and is not baptized, shall be
damned.

3 Nephi 11:35
 35 Verily, verily, I say unto you, that this is my doctrine, and
I bear record of it from the Father; and whoso believeth in me
believeth in the Father also; and unto him will the Father bear
record of me, for he will visit him with fire and with the Holy
Ghost.

3 Nephi 11:36
 36 And thus will the Father bear record of me, and the Holy
Ghost will bear record unto him of the Father and me; for the
Father, and I, and the Holy Ghost are one.

3 Nephi 11:37
 37 And again I say unto you, ye must repent, and become as a
little child, and be baptized in my name, or ye can in nowise
receive these things.

3 Nephi 11:38
 38 And again I say unto you, ye must repent, and be baptized in
my name, and become as a little child, or ye can in nowise
inherit the kingdom of God.

3 Nephi 11:39
 39 Verily, verily, I say unto you, that this is my doctrine, and
whoso buildeth upon this buildeth upon my rock, and the gates of
hell shall not prevail against them.

3 Nephi 11:40
 40 And whoso shall declare more or less than this, and establish
it for my doctrine, the same cometh of evil, and is not built
upon my rock; but he buildeth upon a sandy foundation, and the
gates of hell stand open to receive such when the floods come and
the winds beat upon them.

3 Nephi 11:41
 41 Therefore, go forth unto this people, and declare the words
which I have spoken, unto the ends of the earth.


Blessed are ye if ye
shall give heed unto the words of these twelve whom I have chosen
from among you to minister unto you, and to be your servants; and
unto them I have given power that they may baptize you with
water; and after that ye are baptized with water, behold, I will
baptize you with fire and with the Holy Ghost; therefore blessed
are ye if ye shall believe in me and be baptized, after that ye
have seen me and know that I am.

3 Nephi 12:2
 2 And again, more blessed are they who shall believe in your
words because that ye shall testify that ye have seen me, and
that ye know that I am. Yea, blessed are they who shall believe
in your words, and come down into the depths of humility and be
baptized, for they shall be visited with fire and with the Holy
Ghost, and shall receive a remission of their sins.

3 Nephi 12:3
 3 Yea, blessed are the poor in spirit who come unto me, for
theirs is the kingdom of heaven.

3 Nephi 12:4
 4 And again, blessed are all they that mourn, for they shall be
comforted.

3 Nephi 12:5
 5 And blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth.

3 Nephi 12:6
 6 And blessed are all they who do hunger and thirst after
righteousness, for they shall be filled with the Holy Ghost.

3 Nephi 12:7
 7 And blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy.

3 Nephi 12:8
 8 And blessed are all the pure in heart, for they shall see God.

3 Nephi 12:9
 9 And blessed are all the peacemakers, for they shall be called
the children of God.

3 Nephi 12:10
 10 And blessed are all they who are persecuted for my name's
sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.

3 Nephi 12:11
 11 And blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute,
and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my
sake;

3 Nephi 12:12
 12 For ye shall have great joy and be exceedingly glad, for
great shall be your reward in heaven; for so persecuted they the
prophets who were before you.

3 Nephi 12:13
 13 Verily, verily, I say unto you, I give unto you to be the
salt of the earth; but if the salt shall lose its savor wherewith
shall the earth be salted? The salt shall be thenceforth good for
nothing, but to be cast out and to be trodden under foot of men.

3 Nephi 12:14
 14 Verily, verily, I say unto you, I give unto you to be the
light of this people. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid.

3 Nephi 12:15
 15 Behold, do men light a candle and put it under a bushel? Nay,
but on a candlestick, and it giveth light to all that are in the
house;

3 Nephi 12:16
 16 Therefore let your light so shine before this people, that
they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in
heaven.

3 Nephi 12:17
 17 Think not that I am come to destroy the law or the prophets.
I am not come to destroy but to fulfil;

3 Nephi 12:18
 18 For verily I say unto you, one jot nor tittle hath not passed
away from the law, but in me it hath all been fulfilled.

3 Nephi 12:19
 19 And behold, I have given you the law and the commandments of
my Father, that ye shall believe in me, and that ye shall repent
of your sins, and come unto me with a broken heart and a contrite
spirit. Behold, ye have the commandments before you, and the law
is fulfilled.

3 Nephi 12:20
 20 Therefore come unto me and be ye saved; for verily I say unto
you, that except ye shall keep my commandments, which I have
commanded you at this time, ye shall in no case enter into the
kingdom of heaven.

3 Nephi 12:21
 21 Ye have heard that it hath been said by them of old time, and
it is also written before you, that thou shalt not kill, and
whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment of God;

3 Nephi 12:22
 22 But I say unto you, that whosoever is angry with his brother
shall be in danger of his judgment. And whosoever shall say to
his brother, Raca, shall be in danger of the council; and
whosoever shall say, Thou fool, shall be in danger of hell fire.

3 Nephi 12:23
 23 Therefore, if ye shall come unto me, or shall desire to come
unto me, and rememberest that thy brother hast aught against
thee--

3 Nephi 12:24
 24 Go thy way unto thy brother, and first be reconciled to thy
brother, and then come unto me with full purpose of heart, and I
will receive you.

3 Nephi 12:25
 25 Agree with thine adversary quickly while thou art in the way
with him, lest at any time he shall get thee, and thou shalt be
cast into prison.

3 Nephi 12:26
 26 Verily, verily, I say unto thee, thou shalt by no means come
out thence until thou hast paid the uttermost senine. And while
ye are in prison can ye pay even one senine? Verily, verily, I
say unto you, Nay.

3 Nephi 12:27
 27 Behold, it is written by them of old time, that thou shalt
not commit adultery;

3 Nephi 12:28
 28 But I say unto you, that whosoever looketh on a woman, to
lust after her, hath committed adultery already in his heart.

3 Nephi 12:29
 29 Behold, I give unto you a commandment, that ye suffer none of
these things to enter into your heart;

3 Nephi 12:30
 30 For it is better that ye should deny yourselves of these
things, wherein ye will take up your cross, than that ye should
be cast into hell.

3 Nephi 12:31
 31 It hath been written, that whosoever shall put away his wife,
let him give her a writing of divorcement.

3 Nephi 12:32
 32 Verily, verily, I say unto you, that whosoever shall put away
his wife, saving for the cause of fornication, causeth her to
commit adultery; and whoso shall marry her who is divorced
committeth adultery.

3 Nephi 12:33
 33 And again it is written, thou shalt not forswear thyself, but
shalt perform unto the Lord thine oaths;

3 Nephi 12:34
 34 But verily, verily, I say unto you, swear not at all; neither
by heaven, for it is God's throne;

3 Nephi 12:35
 35 Nor by the earth, for it is his footstool;

3 Nephi 12:36
 36 Neither shalt thou swear by thy head, because thou canst not
make one hair black or white;

3 Nephi 12:37
 37 But let your communication be Yea, yea; Nay, nay; for
whatsoever cometh of more than these is evil.

3 Nephi 12:38
 38 And behold, it is written, an eye for an eye, and a tooth for
a tooth;

3 Nephi 12:39
 39 But I say unto you, that ye shall not resist evil, but
whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the
other also;

3 Nephi 12:40
 40 And if any man will sue thee at the law and take away thy
coat, let him have thy cloak also;

3 Nephi 12:41
 41 And whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him
twain.

3 Nephi 12:42
 42 Give to him that asketh thee, and from him that would borrow
of thee turn not away.

3 Nephi 12:43
 43 And behold it is written also, that thou shalt love thy
neighbor and hate thine enemy;

3 Nephi 12:44
 44 But I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse
you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them who
despitefully use you and persecute you;

3 Nephi 12:45
 45 That ye may be the children of your Father who is in heaven;
for he maketh his sun to rise on the evil and on the good.

3 Nephi 12:46
 46 Therefore those things which were of old time, which were
under the law, in me are all fulfilled.

3 Nephi 12:47
 47 Old things are done away, and all things have become new.

3 Nephi 12:48
 48 Therefore I would that ye should be perfect even as I, or
your Father who is in heaven is perfect.

3 Nephi 13
Chapter 13

3 Nephi 13:1
 1 Verily, verily, I say that I would that ye should do alms unto
the poor; but take heed that ye do not your alms before men to be
seen of them; otherwise ye have no reward of your Father who is
in heaven.

3 Nephi 13:2
 2 Therefore, when ye shall do your alms do not sound a trumpet
before you, as will hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the
streets, that they may have glory of men.  Verily I say unto you,
they have their reward.

3 Nephi 13:3
 3 But when thou doest alms let not thy left hand know what thy
right hand doeth;

3 Nephi 13:4
 4 That thine alms may be in secret; and thy Father who seeth in
secret, himself shall reward thee openly.

3 Nephi 13:5
 5 And when thou prayest thou shalt not do as the hypocrites, for
they love to pray, standing in the synagogues and in the corners
of the streets, that they may be seen of men.  Verily I say unto
you, they have their reward.

3 Nephi 13:6
 6 But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when
thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father who is in secret; and
thy Father, who seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly.

3 Nephi 13:7
 7 But when ye pray, use not vain repetitions, as the heathen,
for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking.

3 Nephi 13:8
 8 Be not ye therefore like unto them, for your Father knoweth
what things ye have need of before ye ask him.

3 Nephi 13:9
 9 After this manner therefore pray ye: Our Father who art in
heaven, hallowed be thy name.

3 Nephi 13:10
 10 Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven.

3 Nephi 13:11
 11 And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors.

3 Nephi 13:12
 12 And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil.

3 Nephi 13:13
 13 For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory,
forever.  Amen.

3 Nephi 13:14
 14 For, if ye forgive men their trespasses your heavenly Father
will also forgive you;

3 Nephi 13:15
 15 But if ye forgive not men their trespasses neither will your
Father forgive your trespasses.

3 Nephi 13:16
 16 Moreover, when ye fast be not as the hypocrites, of a sad
countenance, for they disfigure their faces that they may appear
unto men to fast.  Verily I say unto you, they have their reward.

3 Nephi 13:17
 17 But thou, when thou fastest, anoint thy head, and wash thy
face;

3 Nephi 13:18
 18 That thou appear not unto men to fast, but unto thy Father,
who is in secret; and thy Father, who seeth in secret, shall
reward thee openly.

3 Nephi 13:19
 19 Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth
and rust doth corrupt, and thieves break through and steal;

3 Nephi 13:20
 20 But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither
moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break
through nor steal.

3 Nephi 13:21
 21 For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.

3 Nephi 13:22
 22 The light of the body is the eye; if, therefore, thine eye be
single, thy whole body shall be full of light.

3 Nephi 13:23
 23 But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of
darkness.  If, therefore, the light that is in thee be darkness,
how great is that darkness!

3 Nephi 13:24
 24 No man can serve two masters; for either he will hate the one
and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise
the other.  Ye cannot serve God and Mammon.

Remember the words which I have spoken.  For behold, ye are
they whom I have chosen to minister unto this people.  Therefore
I say unto you, take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat,
or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put
on.  Is not the life more than meat, and the body than raiment?

3 Nephi 13:26
 26 Behold the fowls of the air, for they sow not, neither do
they reap nor gather into barns; yet your heavenly Father feedeth
them.  Are ye not much better than they?

3 Nephi 13:27
 27 Which of you by taking thought can add one cubit unto his
stature?

3 Nephi 13:28
 28 And why take ye thought for raiment?  Consider the lilies of
the field how they grow; they toil not, neither do they spin;

3 Nephi 13:29
 29 And yet I say unto you, that even Solomon, in all his glory,
was not arrayed like one of these.

3 Nephi 13:30
 30 Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass of the field, which
today is, and tomorrow is cast into the oven, even so will he
clothe you, if ye are not of little faith.

3 Nephi 13:31
 31 Therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eat?  or,
What shall we drink?  or, Wherewithal shall we be clothed?

3 Nephi 13:32
 32 For your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all
these things.

3 Nephi 13:33
 33 But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness,
and all these things shall be added unto you.

3 Nephi 13:34
 34 Take therefore no thought for the morrow, for the morrow
shall take thought for the things of itself.  Sufficient is the
day unto the evil thereof.


Verily, verily, I say unto you, Judge not,
that ye be not judged.

3 Nephi 14:2
 2 For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged; and with
what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again.

3 Nephi 14:3
 3 And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye,
but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye?

3 Nephi 14:4
 4 Or how wilt thou say to thy brother: Let me pull the mote out
of thine eye--and behold, a beam is in thine own eye?

3 Nephi 14:5
 5 Thou hypocrite, first cast the beam out of thine own eye; and
then shalt thou see clearly to cast the mote out of thy brother's
eye.

3 Nephi 14:6
 6 Give not that which is holy unto the dogs, neither cast ye
your pearls before swine, lest they trample them under their
feet, and turn again and rend you.

3 Nephi 14:7
 7 Ask, and it shall be given unto you; seek, and ye shall find;
knock, and it shall be opened unto you.

3 Nephi 14:8
 8 For every one that asketh, receiveth; and he that seeketh,
findeth; and to him that knocketh, it shall be opened.

3 Nephi 14:9
 9 Or what man is there of you, who, if his son ask bread, will
give him a stone?

3 Nephi 14:10
 10 Or if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent?

3 Nephi 14:11
 11 If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your
children, how much more shall your Father who is in heaven give
good things to them that ask him?

3 Nephi 14:12
 12 Therefore, all things whatsoever ye would that men should do
to you, do ye even so to them, for this is the law and the
prophets.

3 Nephi 14:13
 13 Enter ye in at the strait gate; for wide is the gate, and
broad is the way, which leadeth to destruction, and many there be
who go in thereat;

3 Nephi 14:14
 14 Because strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which
leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it.

3 Nephi 14:15
 15 Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's
clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves.

3 Nephi 14:16
 16 Ye shall know them by their fruits.  Do men gather grapes of
thorns, or figs of thistles?

3 Nephi 14:17
 17 Even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit; but a
corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit.

3 Nephi 14:18
 18 A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither a corrupt
tree bring forth good fruit.

3 Nephi 14:19
 19 Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down,
and cast into the fire.

3 Nephi 14:20
 20 Wherefore, by their fruits ye shall know them.

3 Nephi 14:21
 21 Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter
into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my
Father who is in heaven.

3 Nephi 14:22
 22 Many will say to me in that day: Lord, Lord, have we not
prophesied in thy name, and in thy name have cast out devils, and
in thy name done many wonderful works?

3 Nephi 14:23
 23 And then will I profess unto them: I never knew you; depart
from me, ye that work iniquity.

3 Nephi 14:24
 24 Therefore, whoso heareth these sayings of mine and doeth
them, I will liken him unto a wise man, who built his house upon
a rock--

3 Nephi 14:25
 25 And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds
blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not, for it was
founded upon a rock.

3 Nephi 14:26
 26 And every one that heareth these sayings of mine and doeth
them not shall be likened unto a foolish man, who built his house
upon the sand--

3 Nephi 14:27
 27 And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds
blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell, and great was the
fall of it.

Behold, ye have heard the things which I taught before
I ascended to my Father; therefore, whoso remembereth these
sayings of mine and doeth them, him will I raise up at the last
day.

Marvel not that I said unto you that
old things had passed away, and that all things had become new.

3 Nephi 15:4
 4 Behold, I say unto you that the law is fulfilled that was
given unto Moses.

3 Nephi 15:5
 5 Behold, I am he that gave the law, and I am he who covenanted
with my people Israel; therefore, the law in me is fulfilled, for
I have come to fulfil the law; therefore it hath an end.

3 Nephi 15:6
 6 Behold, I do not destroy the prophets, for as many as have not
been fulfilled in me, verily I say unto you, shall all be
fulfilled.

3 Nephi 15:7
 7 And because I said unto you that old things have passed away,
I do not destroy that which hath been spoken concerning things
which are to come.

3 Nephi 15:8
 8 For behold, the covenant which I have made with my people is
not all fulfilled; but the law which was given unto Moses hath an
end in me.

3 Nephi 15:9
 9 Behold, I am the law, and the light.  Look unto me, and endure
to the end, and ye shall live; for unto him that endureth to the
end will I give eternal life.

3 Nephi 15:10
 10 Behold, I have given unto you the commandments; therefore
keep my commandments.  And this is the law and the prophets, for
they truly testified of me.


3 Nephi 15:12
 12 Ye are my disciples; and ye are a light unto this people, who
are a remnant of the house of Joseph.

3 Nephi 15:13
 13 And behold, this is the land of your inheritance; and the
Father hath given it unto you.

3 Nephi 15:14
 14 And not at any time hath the Father given me commandment that
I should tell it unto your brethren at Jerusalem.

3 Nephi 15:15
 15 Neither at any time hath the Father given me commandment that
I should tell unto them concerning the other tribes of the house
of Israel, whom the Father hath led away out of the land.

3 Nephi 15:16
 16 This much did the Father command me, that I should tell unto
them:

3 Nephi 15:17
 17 That other sheep I have which are not of this fold; them also
I must bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be
one fold, and one shepherd.

3 Nephi 15:18
 18 And now, because of stiffneckedness and unbelief they
understood not my word; therefore I was commanded to say no more
of the Father concerning this thing unto them.

3 Nephi 15:19
 19 But, verily, I say unto you that the Father hath commanded
me, and I tell it unto you, that ye were separated from among
them because of their iniquity; therefore it is because of their
iniquity that they know not of you.

3 Nephi 15:20
 20 And verily, I say unto you again that the other tribes hath
the Father separated from them; and it is because of their
iniquity that they know not of them.

3 Nephi 15:21
 21 And verily I say unto you, that ye are they of whom I said:
Other sheep I have which are not of this fold; them also I must
bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold,
and one shepherd.

3 Nephi 15:22
 22 And they understood me not, for they supposed it had been the
Gentiles; for they understood not that the Gentiles should be
converted through their preaching.

3 Nephi 15:23
 23 And they understood me not that I said they shall hear my
voice; and they understood me not that the Gentiles should not at
any time hear my voice--that I should not manifest myself unto
them save it were by the Holy Ghost.

3 Nephi 15:24
 24 But behold, ye have both heard my voice, and seen me; and ye
are my sheep, and ye are numbered among those whom the Father
hath given me.


3 Nephi 16
Chapter 16

3 Nephi 16:1
 1 And verily, verily, I say unto you that I have other sheep
which are not of this land, neither of the land of Jerusalem,
neither in any parts of that land round about whither I have been
to minister.

3 Nephi 16:2
 2 For they of whom I speak are they who have not as yet heard my
voice; neither have I at any time manifested myself unto them.

3 Nephi 16:3
 3 But I have received a commandment of the Father that I shall
go unto them, and that they shall hear my voice, and shall be
numbered among my sheep, that there may be one fold and one
shepherd; therefore I go to show myself unto them.

3 Nephi 16:4
 4 And I command you that ye shall write these sayings after I am
gone, that if it so be that my people at Jerusalem, they who have
seen me and been with me in my ministry, do not ask the Father in
my name, that they may receive a knowledge of you by the Holy
Ghost, and also of the other tribes whom they know not of, that
these sayings which ye shall write shall be kept and shall be
manifested unto the Gentiles, that through the fulness of the
Gentiles, the remnant of their seed, who shall be scattered forth
upon the face of the earth because of their unbelief, may be
brought in, or may be brought to a knowledge of me, their
Redeemer.

3 Nephi 16:5
 5 And then will I gather them in from the four quarters of the
earth; and then will I fulfill the covenant which the Father hath
made unto all the people of the house of Israel.

3 Nephi 16:6
 6 And blessed are the Gentiles, because of their belief in me,
in and of the Holy Ghost, which witnesses unto them of me and of
the Father.

3 Nephi 16:7
 7 Behold, because of their belief in me, saith the Father, and
because of the unbelief of you, O house of Israel, in the latter
day shall the truth come unto the Gentiles, that the fulness of
these things shall be made known unto them.

3 Nephi 16:8
 8 But wo, saith the Father, unto the unbelieving of the
Gentiles--for notwithstanding they have come forth upon the face
of this land, and have scattered my people who are of the house
of Israel; and my people who are of the house of Israel have been
cast out from among them, and have been trodden under feet by
them;

3 Nephi 16:9
 9 And because of the mercies of the Father unto the Gentiles,
and also the judgments of the Father upon my people who are of
the house of Israel, verily, verily, I say unto you, that after
all this, and I have caused my people who are of the house of
Israel to be smitten, and to be afflicted, and to be slain, and
to be cast out from among them, and to become hated by them, and
to become a hiss and a byword among them--

3 Nephi 16:10
 10 And thus commandeth the Father that I should say unto you: At
that day when the Gentiles shall sin against my gospel, and shall
reject the fulness of my gospel, and shall be lifted up in the
pride of their hearts above all nations, and above all the people
of the whole earth, and shall be filled with all manner of
lyings, and of deceits, and of mischiefs, and all manner of
hypocrisy, and murders, and priestcrafts, and whoredoms, and of
secret abominations; and if they shall do all those things, and
shall reject the fulness of my gospel, behold, saith the Father,
I will bring the fulness of my gospel from among them.

3 Nephi 16:11
 11 And then will I remember my covenant which I have made unto
my people, O house of Israel, and I will bring my gospel unto
them.

3 Nephi 16:12
 12 And I will show unto thee, O house of Israel, that the
Gentiles shall not have power over you; but I will remember my
covenant unto you, O house of Israel, and ye shall come unto the
knowledge of the fulness of my gospel.

3 Nephi 16:13
 13 But if the Gentiles will repent and return unto me, saith the
Father, behold they shall be numbered among my people, O house of
Israel.

3 Nephi 16:14
 14 And I will not suffer my people, who are of the house of
Israel, to go through among them, and tread them down, saith the
Father.

3 Nephi 16:15
 15 But if they will not turn unto me, and hearken unto my voice,
I will suffer them, yea, I will suffer my people, O house of
Israel, that they shall go through among them, and shall tread
them down, and they shall be as salt that hath lost its savor,
which is thenceforth good for nothing but to be cast out, and to
be trodden under foot of my people, O house of Israel.

3 Nephi 16:16
 16 Verily, verily, I say unto you, thus hath the Father
commanded me--that I should give unto this people this land for
their inheritance.

3 Nephi 16:17
 17 And then the words of the prophet Isaiah shall be fulfilled,
which say:

3 Nephi 16:18
 18 Thy watchmen shall lift up the voice; with the voice together
shall they sing, for they shall see eye to eye when the Lord
shall bring again Zion.

3 Nephi 16:19
 19 Break forth into joy, sing together, ye waste places of
Jerusalem; for the Lord hath comforted his people, he hath
redeemed Jerusalem.

3 Nephi 16:20
 20 The Lord hath made bare his holy arm in the eye of all the
nations; and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of
God.

Behold, my time is at hand.

3 Nephi 17:2
 2 I perceive that ye are weak, that ye cannot understand all my
words which I am commanded of the Father to speak unto you at
this time.

3 Nephi 17:3
 3 Therefore, go ye unto your homes, and ponder upon the things
which I have said, and ask of the Father, in my name, that ye may
understand, and prepare your minds for the morrow, and I come
unto you again.

3 Nephi 17:4
 4 But now I go unto the Father, and also to show myself unto the
lost tribes of Israel, for they are not lost unto the Father, for
he knoweth whither he hath taken them.

Behold, my bowels are filled with
compassion towards you.

3 Nephi 17:7
 7 Have ye any that are sick among you?  Bring them hither.  Have
ye any that are lame, or blind, or halt, or maimed, or leprous,
or that are withered, or that are deaf, or that are afflicted in
any manner?  Bring them hither and I will heal them, for I have
compassion upon you; my bowels are filled with mercy.

3 Nephi 17:8
 8 For I perceive that ye desire that I should show unto you what
I have done unto your brethren at Jerusalem, for I see that your
faith is sufficient that I should heal you.

Father, I am troubled
because of the wickedness of the people of the house of Israel.


Behold there shall one be ordained among you, and
to him will I give power that he shall break bread and bless it
and give it unto the people of my church, unto all those who
shall believe and be baptized in my name.

3 Nephi 18:6
 6 And this shall ye always observe to do, even as I have done,
even as I have broken bread and blessed it and given it unto you.

3 Nephi 18:7
 7 And this shall ye do in remembrance of my body, which I have
shown unto you.  And it shall be a testimony unto the Father that
ye do always remember me.  And if ye do always remember me ye
shall have my Spirit to be with you.

Blessed are ye for this thing which ye have done, for this is
fulfilling my commandments, and this doth witness unto the Father
that ye are willing to do that which I have commanded you.

3 Nephi 18:11
 11 And this shall ye always do to those who repent and are
baptized in my name; and ye shall do it in remembrance of my
blood, which I have shed for you, that ye may witness unto the
Father that ye do always remember me.  And if ye do always
remember me ye shall have my Spirit to be with you.

3 Nephi 18:12
 12 And I give unto you a commandment that ye shall do these
things.  And if ye shall always do these things blessed are ye,
for ye are built upon my rock.

3 Nephi 18:13
 13 But whoso among you shall do more or less than these are not
built upon my rock, but are built upon a sandy foundation; and
when the rain descends, and the floods come, and the winds blow,
and beat upon them, they shall fall, and the gates of hell are
ready open to receive them.

3 Nephi 18:14
 14 Therefore blessed are ye if ye shall keep my commandments,
which the Father hath commanded me that I should give unto you.

3 Nephi 18:15
 15 Verily, verily, I say unto you, ye must watch and pray
always, lest ye be tempted by the devil, and ye be led away
captive by him.

3 Nephi 18:16
 16 And as I have prayed among you even so shall ye pray in my
church, among my people who do repent and are baptized in my
name.  Behold I am the light; I have set an example for you.


3 Nephi 18:18
 18 Behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, ye must watch and
pray always lest ye enter into temptation; for Satan desireth to
have you, that he may sift you as wheat.

3 Nephi 18:19
 19 Therefore ye must always pray unto the Father in my name;

3 Nephi 18:20
 20 And whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, which is
right, believing that ye shall receive, behold it shall be given
unto you.

3 Nephi 18:21
 21 Pray in your families unto the Father, always in my name,
that your wives and your children may be blessed.

3 Nephi 18:22
 22 And behold, ye shall meet together oft; and ye shall not
forbid any man from coming unto you when ye shall meet together,
but suffer them that they may come unto you and forbid them not;

3 Nephi 18:23
 23 But ye shall pray for them, and shall not cast them out; and
if it so be that they come unto you oft ye shall pray for them
unto the Father, in my name.

3 Nephi 18:24
 24 Therefore, hold up your light that it may shine unto the
world.  Behold I am the light which ye shall hold up--that which
ye have seen me do.  Behold ye see that I have prayed unto the
Father, and ye all have witnessed.

3 Nephi 18:25
 25 And ye see that I have commanded that none of you should go
away, but rather have commanded that ye should come unto me, that
ye might feel and see; even so shall ye do unto the world; and
whosoever breaketh this commandment suffereth himself to be led
into temptation.


3 Nephi 18:27
 27 Behold verily, verily, I say unto you, I give unto you
another commandment, and then I must go unto my Father that I may
fulfil other commandments which he hath given me.

3 Nephi 18:28
 28 And now behold, this is the commandment which I give unto
you, that ye shall not suffer any one knowingly to partake of my
flesh and blood unworthily, when ye shall minister it;

3 Nephi 18:29
 29 For whoso eateth and drinketh my flesh and blood unworthily
eateth and drinketh damnation to his soul; therefore if ye know
that a man is unworthy to eat and drink of my flesh and blood ye
shall forbid him.

3 Nephi 18:30
 30 Nevertheless, ye shall not cast him out from among you, but
ye shall minister unto him and shall pray for him unto the
Father, in my name; and if it so be that he repenteth and is
baptized in my name, then shall ye receive him, and shall
minister unto him of my flesh and blood.

3 Nephi 18:31
 31 But if he repent not he shall not be numbered among my
people, that he may not destroy my people, for behold I know my
sheep, and they are numbered.

3 Nephi 18:32
 32 Nevertheless, ye shall not cast him out of your synagogues,
or your places of worship, for unto such shall ye continue to
minister; for ye know not but what they will return and repent,
and come unto me with full purpose of heart, and I shall heal
them; and ye shall be the means of bringing salvation unto them.

3 Nephi 18:33
 33 Therefore, keep these sayings which I have commanded you that
ye come not under condemnation; for wo unto him whom the Father
condemneth.

3 Nephi 18:34
 34 And I give you these commandments because of the disputations
which have been among you.  And blessed are ye if ye have no
disputations among you.

3 Nephi 18:35
 35 And now I go unto the Father, because it is expedient that I
should go unto the Father for your sakes.



3 Nephi 19:20
 20 Father, I thank thee that thou hast given the Holy Ghost unto
these whom I have chosen; and it is because of their belief in me
that I have chosen them out of the world.

3 Nephi 19:21
 21 Father, I pray thee that thou wilt give the Holy Ghost unto
all them that shall believe in their words.

3 Nephi 19:22
 22 Father, thou hast given them the Holy Ghost because they
believe in me; and thou seest that they believe in me because
thou hearest them, and they pray unto me; and they pray unto me
because I am with them.

3 Nephi 19:23
 23 And now Father, I pray unto thee for them, and also for all
those who shall believe on their words, that they may believe in
me, that I may be in them as thou, Father, art in me, that we may
be one.


3 Nephi 19:28
 28 Father, I thank thee that thou hast purified those whom I
have chosen, because of their faith, and I pray for them, and
also for them who shall believe on their words, that they may be
purified in me, through faith on their words, even as they are
purified in me.

3 Nephi 19:29
 29 Father, I pray not for the world, but for those whom thou
hast given me out of the world, because of their faith, that they
may be purified in me, that I may be in them as thou, Father, art
in me, that we may be one, that I may be glorified in them.

3 Nephi 19:30
 30 And when Jesus had spoken these words he came again unto his
disciples; and behold they did pray steadfastly, without ceasing,
unto him; and he did smile upon them again; and behold they were
white, even as Jesus.

3 Nephi 19:31
 31 And it came to pass that he went again a little way off and
prayed unto the Father;


So
great faith have I never seen among all the Jews; wherefore I
could not show unto them so great miracles, because of their
unbelief.

3 Nephi 19:36
 36 Verily I say unto you, there are none of them that have seen
so great things as ye have seen; neither have they heard so great
things as ye have heard.


3 Nephi 23
Chapter 23

3 Nephi 23:1
 1 And now, behold, I say unto you, that ye ought to search these
things.  Yea, a commandment I give unto you that ye search these
things diligently; for great are the words of Isaiah.

3 Nephi 23:2
 2 For surely he spake as touching all things concerning my
people which are of the house of Israel; therefore it must needs
be that he must speak also to the Gentiles.

3 Nephi 23:3
 3 And all things that he spake have been and shall be, even
according to the words which he spake.

3 Nephi 23:4
 4 Therefore give heed to my words; write the things which I have
told you; and according to the time and the will of the Father
they shall go forth unto the Gentiles.

3 Nephi 23:5
 5 And whosoever will hearken unto my words and repenteth and is
baptized, the same shall be saved.  Search the prophets, for many
there be that testify of these things.


Behold, other scriptures I would that ye should write, that ye
have not.


Bring forth the
record which ye have kept.



3 Nephi 23:9
 9 Verily I say unto you, I commanded my servant Samuel, the
Lamanite, that he should testify unto this people, that at the
day that the Father should glorify his name in me that there were
many saints who should arise from the dead, and should appear
unto many, and should minister unto them.  And he said unto them:
Was it not so?

How be it that ye have not written
this thing, that many saints did arise and appear unto many and
did minister unto them?

What will ye that I shall
give unto you?


Lord, we will that thou wouldst tell
us the name whereby we shall call this church; for there are
disputations among the people concerning this matter.


Verily, verily, I say unto you,
why is it that the people should murmur and dispute because of
this thing?

3 Nephi 27:5
 5 Have they not read the scriptures, which say ye must take upon
you the name of Christ, which is my name?  For by this name shall
ye be called at the last day;

3 Nephi 27:6
 6 And whoso taketh upon him my name, and endureth to the end,
the same shall be saved at the last day.

3 Nephi 27:7
 7 Therefore, whatsoever ye shall do, ye shall do it in my name;
therefore ye shall call the church in my name; and ye shall call
upon the Father in my name that he will bless the church for my
sake.

3 Nephi 27:8
 8 And how be it my church save it be called in my name?  For if
a church be called in Moses' name then it be Moses' church; or if
it be called in the name of a man then it be the church of a man;
but if it be called in my name then it is my church, if it so be
that they are built upon my gospel.

3 Nephi 27:9
 9 Verily I say unto you, that ye are built upon my gospel;
therefore ye shall call whatsoever things ye do call, in my name;
therefore if ye call upon the Father, for the church, if it be in
my name the Father will hear you;

3 Nephi 27:10
 10 And if it so be that the church is built upon my gospel then
will the Father show forth his own works in it.

3 Nephi 27:11
 11 But if it be not built upon my gospel, and is built upon the
works of men, or upon the works of the devil, verily I say unto
you they have joy in their works for a season, and by and by the
end cometh, and they are hewn down and cast into the fire, from
whence there is no return.

3 Nephi 27:12
 12 For their works do follow them, for it is because of their
works that they are hewn down; therefore remember the things that
I have told you.

3 Nephi 27:13
 13 Behold I have given unto you my gospel, and this is the
gospel which I have given unto you--that I came into the world to
do the will of my Father, because my Father sent me.

3 Nephi 27:14
 14 And my Father sent me that I might be lifted up upon the
cross; and after that I had been lifted up upon the cross, that I
might draw all men unto me, that as I have been lifted up by men
even so should men be lifted up by the Father, to stand before
me, to be judged of their works, whether they be good or whether
they be evil--

3 Nephi 27:15
 15 And for this cause have I been lifted up; therefore,
according to the power of the Father I will draw all men unto me,
that they may be judged according to their works.

3 Nephi 27:16
 16 And it shall come to pass, that whoso repenteth and is
baptized in my name shall be filled; and if he endureth to the
end, behold, him will I hold guiltless before my Father at that
day when I shall stand to judge the world.

3 Nephi 27:17
 17 And he that endureth not unto the end, the same is he that is
also hewn down and cast into the fire, from whence they can no
more return, because of the justice of the Father.

3 Nephi 27:18
 18 And this is the word which he hath given unto the children of
men.  And for this cause he fulfilleth the words which he hath
given, and he lieth not, but fulfilleth all his words.

3 Nephi 27:19
 19 And no unclean thing can enter into his kingdom; therefore
nothing entereth into his rest save it be those who have washed
their garments in my blood, because of their faith, and the
repentance of all their sins, and their faithfulness unto the
end.

3 Nephi 27:20
 20 Now this is the commandment: Repent, all ye ends of the
earth, and come unto me and be baptized in my name, that ye may
be sanctified by the reception of the Holy Ghost, that ye may
stand spotless before me at the last day.

3 Nephi 27:21
 21 Verily, verily, I say unto you, this is my gospel; and ye
know the things that ye must do in my church; for the works which
ye have seen me do that shall ye also do; for that which ye have
seen me do even that shall ye do;

3 Nephi 27:22
 22 Therefore, if ye do these things blessed are ye, for ye shall
be lifted up at the last day.

3 Nephi 27:23
 23 Write the things which ye have seen and heard, save it be
those which are forbidden.

3 Nephi 27:24
 24 Write the works of this people, which shall be, even as hath
been written, of that which hath been.

3 Nephi 27:25
 25 For behold, out of the books which have been written, and
which shall be written, shall this people be judged, for by them
shall their works be known unto men.

3 Nephi 27:26
 26 And behold, all things are written by the Father; therefore
out of the books which shall be written shall the world be
judged.

3 Nephi 27:27
 27 And know ye that ye shall be judges of this people, according
to the judgment which I shall give unto you, which shall be just.

Therefore, what manner of men ought ye to be?  Verily I say unto
you, even as I am.

3 Nephi 27:28
 28 And now I go unto the Father.  And verily I say unto you,
whatsoever things ye shall ask the Father in my name shall be
given unto you.

3 Nephi 27:29
 29 Therefore, ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be
opened unto you; for he that asketh, receiveth; and unto him that
knocketh, it shall be opened.

3 Nephi 27:30
 30 And now, behold, my joy is great, even unto fulness, because
of you, and also this generation; yea, and even the Father
rejoiceth, and also all the holy angels, because of you and this
generation; for none of them are lost.

3 Nephi 27:31
 31 Behold, I would that ye should understand; for I mean them
who are now alive of this generation; and none of them are lost;
and in them I have fulness of joy.

3 Nephi 27:32
 32 But behold, it sorroweth me because of the fourth generation
from this generation, for they are led away captive by him even
as was the son of perdition; for they will sell me for silver and
for gold, and for that which moth doth corrupt and which thieves
can break through and steal.  And in that day will I visit them,
even in turning their works upon their own heads.

 Enter ye in at the strait gate; for
strait is the gate, and narrow is the way that leads to life, and
few there be that find it; but wide is the gate, and broad the
way which leads to death, and many there be that travel therein,
until the night cometh, wherein no man can work.


What is it that
ye desire of me, after that I am gone to the Father?

Blessed are ye because ye desired this
thing of me; therefore, after that ye are seventy and two years
old ye shall come unto me in my kingdom; and with me ye shall
find rest.

What will ye that I should do unto
you, when I am gone unto the Father?


Behold, I know your thoughts, and ye
have desired the thing which John, my beloved, who was with me in
my ministry, before that I was lifted up by the Jews, desired of
me.

3 Nephi 28:7
 7 Therefore, more blessed are ye, for ye shall never taste of
death; but ye shall live to behold all the doings of the Father
unto the children of men, even until all things shall be
fulfilled according to the will of the Father, when I shall come
in my glory with the powers of heaven.

3 Nephi 28:8
 8 And ye shall never endure the pains of death; but when I shall
come in my glory ye shall be changed in the twinkling of an eye
from mortality to immortality; and then shall ye be blessed in
the kingdom of my Father.

3 Nephi 28:9
 9 And again, ye shall not have pain while ye shall dwell in the
flesh, neither sorrow save it be for the sins of the world; and
all this will I do because of the thing which ye have desired of
me, for ye have desired that ye might bring the souls of men unto
me, while the world shall stand.

3 Nephi 28:10
 10 And for this cause ye shall have fulness of joy; and ye shall
sit down in the kingdom of my Father; yea, your joy shall be
full, even as the Father hath given me fulness of joy; and ye
shall be even as I am, and I am even as the Father; and the
Father and I are one;

3 Nephi 28:11
 11 And the Holy Ghost beareth record of the Father and me; and
the Father giveth the Holy Ghost unto the children of men,
because of me.


3 Nephi 30:2
 2 Turn, all ye Gentiles, from your wicked ways; and repent of
your evil doings, of your lyings and deceivings, and of your
whoredoms, and of your secret abominations, and your idolatries,
and of your murders, and your priestcrafts, and your envyings,
and your strifes, and from all your wickedness and abominations,
and come unto me, and be baptized in my name, that ye may receive
a remission of your sins, and be filled with the Holy Ghost, that
ye may be numbered with my people who are of the house of Israel.







