
3 Nephi
THIRD NEPHI
THE BOOK OF NEPHI
THE SON OF NEPHI, WHO WAS THE SON OF HELAMAN
And Helaman was the son of Helaman, who was the son of Alma, who
was the son of Alma, being a descendant of Nephi who was the son
of Lehi, who came out of Jerusalem in the first year of the reign
of Zedekiah, the king of Judah.

3 Nephi 1
Chapter 1

3 Nephi 1:1
 1 Now it came to pass that the ninety and first year had passed
away and it was six hundred years from the time that Lehi left
Jerusalem; and it was in the year that Lachoneus was the chief
judge and the governor over the land.

3 Nephi 1:2
 2 And Nephi, the son of Helaman, had departed out of the land of
Zarahemla, giving charge unto his son Nephi, who was his eldest
son, concerning the plates of brass, and all the records which
had been kept, and all those things which had been kept sacred
from the departure of Lehi out of Jerusalem.

3 Nephi 1:3
 3 Then he departed out of the land, and whither he went, no man
knoweth; and his son Nephi did keep the records in his stead,
yea, the record of this people.

3 Nephi 1:4
 4 And it came to pass that in the commencement of the ninety and
second year, behold, the prophecies of the prophets began to be
fulfilled more fully; for there began to be greater signs and
greater miracles wrought among the people.

3 Nephi 1:5
 5 But there were some who began to say that the time was past
for the words to be fulfilled, which were spoken by Samuel, the
Lamanite.

3 Nephi 1:6
 6 And they began to rejoice over their brethren, saying: Behold
the time is past, and the words of Samuel are not fulfilled;
therefore, your joy and your faith concerning this thing hath
been vain.

3 Nephi 1:7
 7 And it came to pass that they did make a great uproar
throughout the land; and the people who believed began to be very
sorrowful, lest by any means those things which had been spoken
might not come to pass.

3 Nephi 1:8
 8 But behold, they did watch steadfastly for that day and that
night and that day which should be as one day as if there were no
night, that they might know that their faith had not been vain.

3 Nephi 1:9
 9 Now it came to pass that there was a day set apart by the
unbelievers, that all those who believed in those traditions
should be put to death except the sign should come to pass, which
had been given by Samuel the prophet.

3 Nephi 1:10
 10 Now it came to pass that when Nephi, the son of Nephi, saw
this wickedness of his people, his heart was exceedingly
sorrowful.

3 Nephi 1:11
 11 And it came to pass that he went out and bowed himself down
upon the earth, and cried mightily to his God in behalf of his
people, yea, those who were about to be destroyed because of
their faith in the tradition of their fathers.

3 Nephi 1:12
 12 And it came to pass that he cried mightily unto the Lord, all
that day; and behold, the voice of the Lord came unto him,
saying:

3 Nephi 1:13
 13 Lift up your head and be of good cheer; for behold, the time
is at hand, and on this night shall the sign be given, and on the
morrow come I into the world, to show unto the world that I will
fulfill all that which I have caused to be spoken by the mouth of
my holy prophets.

3 Nephi 1:14
 14 Behold, I come unto my own, to fulfill all things which I
have made known unto the children of men from the foundation of
the world, and to do the will, both of the Father and of the
Son--of the Father because of me, and of the Son because of my
flesh.  And behold, the time is at hand, and this night shall the
sign be given.

3 Nephi 1:15
 15 And it came to pass that the words which came unto Nephi were
fulfilled, according as they had been spoken; for behold, at the
going down of the sun there was no darkness; and the people began
to be astonished because there was no darkness when the night
came.

3 Nephi 1:16
 16 And there were many, who had not believed the words of the
prophets, who fell to the earth and became as if they were dead,
for they knew that the great plan of destruction which they had
laid for those who believed in the words of the prophets had been
frustrated; for the sign which had been given was already at
hand.

3 Nephi 1:17
 17 And they began to know that the Son of God must shortly
appear; yea, in fine, all the people upon the face of the whole
earth from the west to the east, both in the land north and in
the land south, were so exceedingly astonished that they fell to
the earth.

3 Nephi 1:18
 18 For they knew that the prophets had testified of these things
for many years, and that the sign which had been given was
already at hand; and they began to fear because of their iniquity
and their unbelief.

3 Nephi 1:19
 19 And it came to pass that there was no darkness in all that
night, but it was as light as though it was mid-day.  And it came
to pass that the sun did rise in the morning again, according to
its proper order; and they knew that it was the day that the Lord
should be born, because of the sign which had been given.

3 Nephi 1:20
 20 And it had come to pass, yea, all things, every whit,
according to the words of the prophets.

3 Nephi 1:21
 21 And it came to pass also that a new star did appear,
according to the word.

3 Nephi 1:22
 22 And it came to pass that from this time forth there began to
be lyings sent forth among the people, by Satan, to harden their
hearts, to the intent that they might not believe in those signs
and wonders which they had seen; but notwithstanding these lyings
and deceivings the more part of the people did believe, and were
converted unto the Lord.

3 Nephi 1:23
 23 And it came to pass that Nephi went forth among the people,
and also many others, baptizing unto repentance, in the which
there was a great remission of sins.  And thus the people began
again to have peace in the land.

3 Nephi 1:24
 24 And there were no contentions, save it were a few that began
to preach, endeavoring to prove by the scriptures that it was no
more expedient to observe the law of Moses.  Now in this thing
they did err, having not understood the scriptures.

3 Nephi 1:25
 25 But it came to pass that they soon became converted, and were
convinced of the error which they were in, for it was made known
unto them that the law was not yet fulfilled, and that it must be
fulfilled in every whit; yea, the word came unto them that it
must be fulfilled; yea, that one jot or tittle should not pass
away till it should all be fulfilled; therefore in this same year
were they brought to a knowledge of their error and did confess
their faults.

3 Nephi 1:26
 26 And thus the ninety and second year did pass away, bringing
glad tidings unto the people because of the signs which did come
to pass, according to the words of the prophecy of all the holy
prophets.

3 Nephi 1:27
 27 And it came to pass that the ninety and third year did also
pass away in peace, save it were for the Gadianton robbers, who
dwelt upon the mountains, who did infest the land; for so strong
were their holds and their secret places that the people could
not overpower them; therefore they did commit many murders, and
did do much slaughter among the people.

3 Nephi 1:28
 28 And it came to pass that in the ninety and fourth year they
began to increase in great degree, because there were many
dissenters of the Nephites who did flee unto them, which did
cause much sorrow unto those Nephites who did remain in the land.

3 Nephi 1:29
 29 And there was also a cause of much sorrow among the
Lamanites; for behold, they had many children who did grow up and
began to wax strong in years, that they became for themselves,
and were led away by some who were Zoramites, by their lyings and
their flattering words, to join those Gadianton robbers.

3 Nephi 1:30
 30 And thus were the Lamanites afflicted also, and began to
decrease as to their faith and righteousness, because of the
wickedness of the rising generation.

3 Nephi 2
Chapter 2

3 Nephi 2:1
 1 And it came to pass that thus passed away the ninety and fifth
year also, and the people began to forget those signs and wonders
which they had heard, and began to be less and less astonished at
a sign or a wonder from heaven, insomuch that they began to be
hard in their hearts, and blind in their minds, and began to
disbelieve all which they had heard and seen--

3 Nephi 2:2
 2 Imagining up some vain thing in their hearts, that it was
wrought by men and by the power of the devil, to lead away and
deceive the hearts of the people; and thus did Satan get
possession of the hearts of the people again, insomuch that he
did blind their eyes and lead them away to believe that the
doctrine of Christ was a foolish and a vain thing.

3 Nephi 2:3
 3 And it came to pass that the people began to wax strong in
wickedness and abominations; and they did not believe that there
should be any more signs or wonders given; and Satan did go
about, leading away the hearts of the people, tempting them and
causing them that they should do great wickedness in the land.

3 Nephi 2:4
 4 And thus did pass away the ninety and sixth year; and also the
ninety and seventh year; and also the ninety and eighth year; and
also the ninety and ninth year;

3 Nephi 2:5
 5 And also an hundred years had passed away since the days of
Mosiah, who was king over the people of the Nephites.

3 Nephi 2:6
 6 And six hundred and nine years had passed away since Lehi left
Jerusalem.

3 Nephi 2:7
 7 And nine years had passed away from the time when the sign was
given, which was spoken of by the prophets, that Christ should
come into the world.

3 Nephi 2:8
 8 Now the Nephites began to reckon their time from this period
when the sign was given, or from the coming of Christ; therefore,
nine years had passed away.

3 Nephi 2:9
 9 And Nephi, who was the father of Nephi, who had the charge of
the records, did not return to the land of Zarahemla, and could
nowhere be found in all the land.

3 Nephi 2:10
 10 And it came to pass that the people did still remain in
wickedness, notwithstanding the much preaching and prophesying
which was sent among them; and thus passed away the tenth year
also; and the eleventh year also passed away in iniquity.

3 Nephi 2:11
 11 And it came to pass in the thirteenth year there began to be
wars and contentions throughout all the land; for the Gadianton
robbers had become so numerous, and did slay so many of the
people, and did lay waste so many cities, and did spread so much
death and carnage throughout the land, that it became expedient
that all the people, both the Nephites and the Lamanites, should
take up arms against them.

3 Nephi 2:12
 12 Therefore, all the Lamanites who had become converted unto
the Lord did unite with their brethren, the Nephites, and were
compelled, for the safety of their lives and their women and
their children, to take up arms against those Gadianton robbers,
yea, and also to maintain their rights, and the privileges of
their church and of their worship, and their freedom and their
liberty.

3 Nephi 2:13
 13 And it came to pass that before this thirteenth year had
passed away the Nephites were threatened with utter destruction
because of this war, which had become exceedingly sore.

3 Nephi 2:14
 14 And it came to pass that those Lamanites who had united with
the Nephites were numbered among the Nephites;

3 Nephi 2:15
 15 And their curse was taken from them, and their skin became
white like unto the Nephites;

3 Nephi 2:16
 16 And their young men and their daughters became exceedingly
fair, and they were numbered among the Nephites, and were called
Nephites.  And thus ended the thirteenth year.

3 Nephi 2:17
 17 And it came to pass in the commencement of the fourteenth
year, the war between the robbers and the people of Nephi did
continue and did become exceedingly sore; nevertheless, the
people of Nephi did gain some advantage of the robbers, insomuch
that they did drive them back out of their lands into the
mountains and into their secret places.

3 Nephi 2:18
 18 And thus ended the fourteenth year.  And in the fifteenth
year they did come forth against the people of Nephi; and because
of the wickedness of the people of Nephi, and their many
contentions and dissensions, the Gadianton robbers did gain many
advantages over them.

3 Nephi 2:19
 19 And thus ended the fifteenth year, and thus were the people
in a state of many afflictions; and the sword of destruction did
hang over them, insomuch that they were about to be smitten down
by it, and this because of their iniquity.

3 Nephi 3
Chapter 3

3 Nephi 3:1
 1 And now it came to pass that in the sixteenth year from the
coming of Christ, Lachoneus, the governor of the land, received
an epistle from the leader and the governor of this band of
robbers; and these were the words which were written, saying:



3 Nephi 3:11
 11 And now it came to pass when Lachoneus received this epistle
he was exceedingly astonished, because of the boldness of
Giddianhi demanding the possession of the land of the Nephites,
and also of threatening the people and avenging the wrongs of
those that had received no wrong, save it were they had wronged
themselves by dissenting away unto those wicked and abominable
robbers.

3 Nephi 3:12
 12 Now behold, this Lachoneus, the governor, was a just man, and
could not be frightened by the demands and the threatenings of a
robber; therefore he did not hearken to the epistle of Giddianhi,
the governor of the robbers, but he did cause that his people
should cry unto the Lord for strength against the time that the
robbers should come down against them.

3 Nephi 3:13
 13 Yea, he sent a proclamation among all the people, that they
should gather together their women, and their children, their
flocks and their herds, and all their substance, save it were
their land, unto one place.

3 Nephi 3:14
 14 And he caused that fortifications should be built round about
them, and the strength thereof should be exceedingly great.  And
he caused that armies, both of the Nephites and of the Lamanites,
or of all them who were numbered among the Nephites, should be
placed as guards round about to watch them, and to guard them
from the robbers day and night.

3 Nephi 3:15
 15 Yea, he said unto them: 



3 Nephi 3:16
 16 And so great and marvelous were the words and prophecies of
Lachoneus that they did cause fear to come upon all the people;
and they did exert themselves in their might to do according to
the words of Lachoneus.

3 Nephi 3:17
 17 And it came to pass that Lachoneus did appoint chief captains
over all the armies of the Nephites, to command them at the time
that the robbers should come down out of the wilderness against
them.

3 Nephi 3:18
 18 Now the chiefest among all the chief captains and the great
commander of the armies of the Nephites was appointed, and his
name was Gidgiddoni.

3 Nephi 3:19
 19 Now it was the custom among all the Nephites to appoint for
their chief captains, (save it were in their times of wickedness)
some one that had the spirit of revelation and also prophecy;
therefore, this Gidgiddoni was a great prophet among them, as
also was the chief judge.

3 Nephi 3:20
 20 Now the people said unto Gidgiddoni: Pray unto the Lord, and
let us go up upon the mountains and into the wilderness, that we
may fall upon the robbers and destroy them in their own lands.

3 Nephi 3:21
 21 But Gidgiddoni saith unto them: 


3 Nephi 3:22
 22 And it came to pass in the seventeenth year, in the latter
end of the year, the proclamation of Lachoneus had gone forth
throughout all the face of the land, and they had taken their
horses, and their chariots, and their cattle, and all their
flocks, and their herds, and their grain, and all their
substance, and did march forth by thousands and by tens of
thousands, until they had all gone forth to the place which had
been appointed that they should gather themselves together, to
defend themselves against their enemies.

3 Nephi 3:23
 23 And the land which was appointed was the land of Zarahemla,
and the land which was between the land Zarahemla  and the land
Bountiful, yea, to the line which was between the land Bountiful
and the land Desolation.

3 Nephi 3:24
 24 And there were a great many thousand people who were called
Nephites, who did gather themselves together in this land.  Now
Lachoneus did cause that they should gather themselves together
in the land southward, because of the great curse which was upon
the land northward.

3 Nephi 3:25
 25 And they did fortify themselves against their enemies; and
they did dwell in one land, and in one body, and they did fear
the words which had been spoken by Lachoneus, insomuch that they
did repent of all their sins; and they did put up their prayers
unto the Lord their God, that he would deliver them in the time
that their enemies should come down against them to battle.

3 Nephi 3:26
 26 And they were exceedingly sorrowful because of their enemies.

And Gidgiddoni did cause that they should make weapons of war of
every kind, and they should be strong with armor, and with
shields, and with bucklers, after the manner of his instruction.

3 Nephi 4
Chapter 4

3 Nephi 4:1
 1 And it came to pass that in the latter end of the eighteenth
year those armies of robbers had prepared for battle, and began
to come down and to sally forth from the hills, and out of the
mountains, and the wilderness, and their strongholds, and their
secret places, and began to take possession of the lands, both
which were in the land south and which were in the land north,
and began to take possession of all the lands which had been
deserted by the Nephites, and the cities which had been left
desolate.

3 Nephi 4:2
 2 But behold, there were no wild beasts nor game in those lands
which had been deserted by the Nephites, and there was no game
for the robbers save it were in the wilderness.

3 Nephi 4:3
 3 And the robbers could not exist save it were in the
wilderness, for the want of food; for the Nephites had left their
lands desolate, and had gathered their flocks and their herds and
all their substance, and they were in one body.

3 Nephi 4:4
 4 Therefore, there was no chance for the robbers to plunder and
to obtain food, save it were to come up in open battle against
the Nephites; and the Nephites being in one body, and having so
great a number, and having reserved for themselves provisions,
and horses and cattle, and flocks of every kind, that they might
subsist for the space of seven years, in the which time they did
hope to destroy the robbers from off the face of the land; and
thus the eighteenth year did pass away.

3 Nephi 4:5
 5 And it came to pass that in the nineteenth year Giddianhi
found that it was expedient that he should go up to battle
against the Nephites, for there was no way that they could
subsist save it were to plunder and rob and murder.

3 Nephi 4:6
 6 And they durst not spread themselves upon the face of the land
insomuch that they could raise grain, lest the Nephites should
come upon them and slay them; therefore Giddianhi gave
commandment unto his armies that in this year they should go up
to battle against the Nephites.

3 Nephi 4:7
 7 And it came to pass that they did come up to battle; and it
was in the sixth month; and behold, great and terrible was the
day that they did come up to battle; and they were girded about
after the manner of robbers; and they had a lamb-skin about their
loins, and they were dyed in blood, and their heads were shorn,
and they had head-plates upon them; and great and terrible was
the appearance of the armies of Giddianhi, because of their
armor, and because of their being dyed in blood.

3 Nephi 4:8
 8 And it came to pass that the armies of the Nephites, when they
saw the appearance of the army of Giddianhi, had all fallen to
the earth, and did lift their cries to the Lord their God, that
he would spare them and deliver them out of the hands of their
enemies.

3 Nephi 4:9
 9 And it came to pass that when the armies of Giddianhi saw this
they began to shout with a loud voice, because of their joy, for
they had supposed that the Nephites had fallen with fear because
of the terror of their armies.

3 Nephi 4:10
 10 But in this thing they were disappointed, for the Nephites
did not fear them; but they did fear their God and did supplicate
him for protection; therefore, when the armies of Giddianhi did
rush upon them they were prepared to meet them; yea, in the
strength of the Lord they did receive them.

3 Nephi 4:11
 11 And the battle commenced in this the sixth month; and great
and terrible was the battle thereof, yea, great and terrible was
the slaughter thereof, insomuch that there never was known so
great a slaughter among all the people of Lehi since he left
Jerusalem.

3 Nephi 4:12
 12 And notwithstanding the threatenings and the oaths which
Giddianhi had made, behold, the Nephites did beat them, insomuch
that they did fall back from before them.

3 Nephi 4:13
 13 And it came to pass that Gidgiddoni commanded that his armies
should pursue them as far as the borders of the wilderness, and
that they should not spare any that should fall into their hands
by the way; and thus they did pursue them and did slay them, to
the borders of the wilderness, even until they had fulfilled the
commandment of Gidgiddoni.

3 Nephi 4:14
 14 And it came to pass that Giddianhi, who had stood and fought
with boldness, was pursued as he fled; and being weary because of
his much fighting he was overtaken and slain.  And thus was the
end of Giddianhi the robber.

3 Nephi 4:15
 15 And it came to pass that the armies of the Nephites did
return again to their place of security.  And it came to pass
that this nineteenth year did pass away, and the robbers did not
come again to battle; neither did they come again in the
twentieth year.

3 Nephi 4:16
 16 And in the twenty and first year they did not come up to
battle, but they came up on all sides to lay siege round about
the people of Nephi; for they did suppose that if they should cut
off the people of Nephi from their lands, and should hem them in
on every side, and if they should cut them off from all their
outward privileges, that they could cause them to yield
themselves up according to their wishes.

3 Nephi 4:17
 17 Now they had appointed unto themselves another leader, whose
name was Zemnarihah; therefore it was Zemnarihah that did cause
that this siege should take place.

3 Nephi 4:18
 18 But behold, this was an advantage to the Nephites; for it was
impossible for the robbers to lay siege sufficiently long to have
any effect upon the Nephites, because of their much provision
which they had laid up in store,

3 Nephi 4:19
 19 And because of the scantiness of provisions among the
robbers--for behold, they had nothing save it were meat for their
subsistence, which meat they did obtain in the wilderness;

3 Nephi 4:20
 20 And it came to pass that the wild game became scarce in the
wilderness--insomuch that the robbers were about to perish with
hunger.

3 Nephi 4:21
 21 And the Nephites were continually marching out by day and by
night, and falling upon their armies, and cutting them off by
thousands and by tens of thousands.

3 Nephi 4:22
 22 And thus it became the desire of the people of Zemnarihah to
withdraw from their design, because of the great destruction
which came upon them by night and by day.

3 Nephi 4:23
 23 And it came to pass that Zemnarihah did give command unto his
people that they should withdraw themselves from the siege, and
march into the furthermost parts of the land northward.

3 Nephi 4:24
 24 And now, Gidgiddoni being aware of their design, and knowing
of their weakness because of the want of food, and the great
slaughter which had been made among them, therefore he did send
out his armies in the night-time, and did cut off the way of
their retreat, and did place his armies in the way of their
retreat.

3 Nephi 4:25
 25 And this did they do in the night-time, and got on their
march beyond the robbers, so that on the morrow, when the robbers
began their march, they were met by the armies of the Nephites
both in their front and in their rear.

3 Nephi 4:26
 26 And the robbers who were on the south were also cut off in
their places of retreat.  And all these things were done by
command of Gidgiddoni.

3 Nephi 4:27
 27 And there were many thousands who did yield themselves up
prisoners unto the Nephites, and the remainder of them were
slain.

3 Nephi 4:28
 28 And their leader, Zemnarihah, was taken and hanged upon a
tree, yea, even upon the top thereof until he was dead.  And when
they had hanged him until he was dead they did fell the tree to
the earth, and did cry with a loud voice, saying:

3 Nephi 4:29
 29 May the Lord preserve his people in righteousness and in
holiness of heart, that they may cause to be felled to the earth
all who shall seek to slay them because of power and secret
combinations, even as this man hath been felled to the earth.

3 Nephi 4:30
 30 And they did rejoice and cry again with one voice, saying:
May the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of
Jacob, protect this people in righteousness, so long as they
shall call on the name of their God for protection.

3 Nephi 4:31
 31 And it came to pass that they did break forth, all as one, in
singing, and praising their God for the great thing which he had
done for them, in preserving them from falling into the hands of
their enemies.

3 Nephi 4:32
 32 Yea, they did cry: Hosanna to the Most High God.  And they
did cry: Blessed be the name of the Lord God Almighty, the Most
High God.

3 Nephi 4:33
 33 And their hearts were swollen with joy, unto the gushing out
of many tears, because of the great goodness of God in delivering
them out of the hands of their enemies; and they knew it was
because of their repentance and their humility that they had been
delivered from an everlasting destruction.




3 Nephi 5
Chapter 5

3 Nephi 5:1
 1 And now behold, there was not a living soul among all the
people of the Nephites who did doubt in the least the words of
all the holy prophets who had spoken; for they knew that it must
needs be that they must be fulfilled.

3 Nephi 5:2
 2 And they knew that it must be expedient that Christ had come,
because of the many signs which had been given, according to the
words of the prophets; and because of the things which had come
to pass already they knew that it must needs be that all things
should come to pass according to that which had been spoken.

3 Nephi 5:3
 3 Therefore they did forsake all their sins, and their
abominations, and their whoredoms, and did serve God with all
diligence day and night.

3 Nephi 5:4
 4 And now it came to pass that when they had taken all the
robbers prisoners, insomuch that none did escape who were not
slain, they did cast their prisoners into prison, and did cause
the word of God to be preached unto them; and as many as would
repent of their sins and enter into a covenant that they would
murder no more were set at liberty.

3 Nephi 5:5
 5 But as many as there were who did not enter into a covenant,
and who did still continue to have those secret murders in their
hearts, yea, as many as were found breathing out threatenings
against their brethren were condemned and punished according to
the law.

3 Nephi 5:6
 6 And thus they did put an end to all those wicked, and secret,
and abominable combinations, in the which there was so much
wickedness, and so many murders committed.

3 Nephi 5:7
 7 And thus had the twenty and second year passed away, and the
twenty and third year also, and the twenty and fourth, and the
twenty and fifth; and thus had twenty and five years passed away.

3 Nephi 5:8
 8 And there had many things transpired which, in the eyes of
some, would be great and marvelous; nevertheless, they cannot all
be written in this book; yea, this book cannot contain even a
hundredth part of what was done among so many people in the space
of twenty and five years;

3 Nephi 5:9
 9 But behold there are records which do contain all the
proceedings of this people; and a shorter but true account was
given by Nephi.

3 Nephi 5:10
 10 Therefore I have made my record of these things according to
the record of Nephi, which was engraven on the plates which were
called the plates of Nephi.

3 Nephi 5:11
 11 And behold, I do make the record on plates which I have made
with mine own hands.

3 Nephi 5:12
 12 And behold, I am called Mormon, being called after the land
of Mormon, the land in which Alma did establish the church among
the people, yea, the first church which was established among
them after their transgression.

3 Nephi 5:13
 13 Behold, I am a disciple of Jesus Christ, the Son of God.  I
have been called of him to declare his word among his people,
that they might have everlasting life.

3 Nephi 5:14
 14 And it hath become expedient that I, according to the will of
God, that the prayers of those who have gone hence, who were the
holy ones, should be fulfilled according to their faith, should
make a record of these things which have been done--

3 Nephi 5:15
 15 Yea, a small record of that which hath taken place from the
time that Lehi left Jerusalem, even down until the present time.

3 Nephi 5:16
 16 Therefore I do make my record from the accounts which have
been given by those who were before me, until the commencement of
my day;

3 Nephi 5:17
 17 And then I do make a record of the things which I have seen
with mine own eyes.

3 Nephi 5:18
 18 And I know the record which I make to be a just and a true
record; nevertheless there are many things which, according to
our language, we are not able to write.

3 Nephi 5:19
 19 And now I make an end of my saying, which is of myself, and
proceed to give my account of the things which have been before
me.

3 Nephi 5:20
 20 I am Mormon, and a pure descendant of Lehi.  I have reason to
bless my God and my Savior Jesus Christ, that he brought our
fathers out of the land of Jerusalem, (and no one knew it save it
were himself and those whom he brought out of that land) and that
he hath given me and my people so much knowledge unto the
salvation of our souls.

3 Nephi 5:21
 21 Surely he hath blessed the house of Jacob, and hath been
merciful unto the seed of Joseph.

3 Nephi 5:22
 22 And insomuch as the children of Lehi have kept his
commandments he hath blessed them and prospered them according to
his word.

3 Nephi 5:23
 23 Yea, and surely shall he again bring a remnant of the seed of
Joseph to the knowledge of the Lord their God.

3 Nephi 5:24
 24 And as surely as the Lord liveth, will he gather in from the
four quarters of the earth all the remnant of the seed of Jacob,
who are scattered abroad upon all the face of the earth.

3 Nephi 5:25
 25 And as he hath covenanted with all the house of Jacob, even
so shall the covenant wherewith he hath covenanted with the house
of Jacob be fulfilled in his own due time, unto the restoring all
the house of Jacob unto the knowledge of the covenant that he
hath covenanted with them.

3 Nephi 5:26
 26 And then shall they know their Redeemer, who is Jesus Christ,
the Son of God; and then shall they be gathered in from the four
quarters of the earth unto their own lands, from whence they have
been dispersed; yea, as the Lord liveth so shall it be.  Amen.

3 Nephi 6
Chapter 6

3 Nephi 6:1
 1 And now it came to pass that the people of the Nephites did
all return to their own lands in the twenty and sixth year, every
man, with his family, his flocks and his herds, his horses and
his cattle, and all things whatsoever did belong unto them.

3 Nephi 6:2
 2 And it came to pass that they had not eaten up all their
provisions; therefore they did take with them all that they had
not devoured, of all their grain of every kind, and their gold,
and their silver, and all their precious things, and they did
return to their own lands and their possessions, both on the
north and on the south, both on the land northward and on the
land southward.

3 Nephi 6:3
 3 And they granted unto those robbers who had entered into a
covenant to keep the peace of the land, who were desirous to
remain Lamanites, lands, according to their numbers, that they
might have, with their labors, wherewith to subsist upon; and
thus they did establish peace in all the land.

3 Nephi 6:4
 4 And they began again to prosper and to wax great; and the
twenty and sixth and seventh years passed away, and there was
great order in the land; and they had formed their laws according
to equity and justice.

3 Nephi 6:5
 5 And now there was nothing in all the land to hinder the people
from prospering continually, except they should fall into
transgression.

3 Nephi 6:6
 6 And now it was Gidgiddoni, and the judge, Lachoneus, and those
who had been appointed leaders, who had established this great
peace in the land.

3 Nephi 6:7
 7 And it came to pass that there were many cities built anew,
and there were many old cities repaired.

3 Nephi 6:8
 8 And there were many highways cast up, and many roads made,
which led from city to city, and from land to land, and from
place to place.

3 Nephi 6:9
 9 And thus passed away the twenty and eighth year, and the
people had continual peace.

3 Nephi 6:10
 10 But it came to pass in the twenty and ninth year there began
to be some disputings among the people; and some were lifted up
unto pride and boastings because of their exceedingly great
riches, yea, even unto great persecutions;

3 Nephi 6:11
 11 For there were many merchants in the land, and also many
lawyers, and many officers.

3 Nephi 6:12
 12 And the people began to be distinguished by ranks, according
to their riches and their chances for learning, yea, some were
ignorant because of their poverty, and others did receive great
learning because of their riches.

3 Nephi 6:13
 13 Some were lifted up in pride, and others were exceedingly
humble; some did return railing for railing, while others would
receive railing and persecution and all manner of afflictions,
and would not turn and revile again, but were humble and penitent
before God.

3 Nephi 6:14
 14 And thus there became a great inequality in all the land,
insomuch that the church began to be broken up; yea, insomuch
that in the thirtieth year the church was broken up in all the
land save it were among a few of the Lamanites who were converted
unto the true faith; and they would not depart from it, for they
were firm, and steadfast, and immovable, willing with all
diligence to keep the commandments of the Lord.

3 Nephi 6:15
 15 Now the cause of this iniquity of the people was this--Satan
had great power, unto the stirring up of the people to do all
manner of iniquity, and to the puffing them up with pride,
tempting them to seek for power, and authority, and riches, and
the vain things of the world.

3 Nephi 6:16
 16 And thus Satan did lead away the hearts of the people to do
all manner of iniquity; therefore they had enjoyed peace but a
few years.

3 Nephi 6:17
 17 And thus, in the commencement of the thirtieth year--the
people having been delivered up for the space of a long time to
be carried about by the temptations of the devil whithersoever he
desired to carry them, and to do whatsoever iniquity he desired
they should--and thus in the commencement of this, the thirtieth
year, they were in a state of awful wickedness.

3 Nephi 6:18
 18 Now they did not sin ignorantly, for they knew the will of
God concerning them, for it had been taught unto them; therefore
they did wilfully rebel against God.

3 Nephi 6:19
 19 And now it was in the days of Lachoneus, the son of
Lachoneus, for Lachoneus did fill the seat of his father and did
govern the people that year.

3 Nephi 6:20
 20 And there began to be men inspired from heaven and sent
forth, standing among the people in all the land, preaching and
testifying boldly of the sins and iniquities of the people, and
testifying unto them concerning the redemption which the Lord
would make for his people, or in other words, the resurrection of
Christ; and they did testify boldly of his death and sufferings.

3 Nephi 6:21
 21 Now there were many of the people who were exceedingly angry
because of those who testified of these things; and those who
were angry were chiefly the chief judges, and they who had been
high priests and lawyers; yea, all those who were lawyers were
angry with those who testified of these things.

3 Nephi 6:22
 22 Now there was no lawyer nor judge nor high priest that could
have power to condemn any one to death save their condemnation
was signed by the governor of the land.

3 Nephi 6:23
 23 Now there were many of those who testified of the things
pertaining to Christ who testified boldly, who were taken and put
to death secretly by the judges, that the knowledge of their
death came not unto the governor of the land until after their
death.

3 Nephi 6:24
 24 Now behold, this was contrary to the laws of the land, that
any man should be put to death except they had power from the
governor of the land--

3 Nephi 6:25
 25 Therefore a complaint came up unto the land of Zarahemla, to
the governor of the land, against these judges who had condemned
the prophets of the Lord unto death, not according to the law.

3 Nephi 6:26
 26 Now it came to pass that they were taken and brought up
before the judge to be judged of the crime which they had done,
according to the law which had been given by the people.

3 Nephi 6:27
 27 Now it came to pass that those judges had many friends and
kindreds; and the remainder, yea, even almost all the lawyers and
the high priests, did gather themselves together, and unite with
the kindreds of those judges who were to be tried according to
the law.

3 Nephi 6:28
 28 And they did enter into a covenant one with another, yea,
even into that covenant which was given by them of old, which
covenant was given and administered by the devil, to combine
against all righteousness.

3 Nephi 6:29
 29 Therefore they did combine against the people of the Lord,
and enter into a covenant to destroy them, and to deliver those
who were guilty of murder from the grasp of justice, which was
about to be administered according to the law.

3 Nephi 6:30
 30 And they did set at defiance the law and the rights of their
country; and they did covenant one with another to destroy the
governor, and to establish a king over the land, that the land
should no more be at liberty but should be subject unto kings.

3 Nephi 7
Chapter 7

3 Nephi 7:1
 1 Now behold, I will show unto you that they did not establish a
king over the land; but in this same year, yea, the thirtieth
year, they did destroy upon the judgment seat, yea, did murder
the chief judge of the land.

3 Nephi 7:2
 2 And the people were divided one against another; and they did
separate one from another into tribes, every man according to his
family and his kindred and friends; and thus they did destroy the
government of the land.

3 Nephi 7:3
 3 And every tribe did appoint a chief or a leader over them; and
thus they became tribes and leaders of tribes.

3 Nephi 7:4
 4 Now behold, there was no man among them save he had much
family and many kindreds and friends; therefore their tribes
became exceedingly great.

3 Nephi 7:5
 5 Now all this was done, and there were no wars as yet among
them; and all this iniquity had come upon the people because they
did yield themselves unto the power of Satan.

3 Nephi 7:6
 6 And the regulations of the government were destroyed, because
of the secret combination of the friends and kindreds of those
who murdered the prophets.

3 Nephi 7:7
 7 And they did cause a great contention in the land, insomuch
that the more righteous part of the people had nearly all become
wicked; yea, there were but few righteous men among them.

3 Nephi 7:8
 8 And thus six years had not passed away since the more part of
the people had turned from their righteousness, like the dog to
his vomit, or like the sow to her wallowing in the mire.

3 Nephi 7:9
 9 Now this secret combination, which had brought so great
iniquity upon the people, did gather themselves together, and did
place at their head a man whom they did call Jacob;

3 Nephi 7:10
 10 And they did call him their king; therefore he became a king
over this wicked band; and he was one of the chiefest who had
given his voice against the prophets who testified of Jesus.

3 Nephi 7:11
 11 And it came to pass that they were not so strong in number as
the tribes of the people, who were united together save it were
their leaders did establish their laws, every one according to
his tribe; nevertheless they were enemies; notwithstanding they
were not a righteous people, yet they were united in the hatred
of those who had entered into a covenant to destroy the
government.

3 Nephi 7:12
 12 Therefore, Jacob seeing that their enemies were more numerous
than they, he being the king of the band, therefore he commanded
his people that they should take their flight into the
northernmost part of the land, and there build up unto themselves
a kingdom, until they were joined by dissenters, (for he
flattered them that there would be many dissenters) and they
become sufficiently strong to contend with the tribes of the
people; and they did so.

3 Nephi 7:13
 13 And so speedy was their march that it could not be impeded
until they had gone forth out of the reach of the people.  And
thus ended the thirtieth year; and thus were the affairs of the
people of Nephi.

3 Nephi 7:14
 14 And it came to pass in the thirty and first year that they
were divided into tribes, every man according to his family,
kindred and friends; nevertheless they had come to an agreement
that they would not go to war one with another; but they were not
united as to their laws, and their manner of government, for they
were established according to the minds of those who were their
chiefs and their leaders.  But they did establish very strict
laws that one tribe should not trespass against another, insomuch
that in some degree they had peace in the land; nevertheless,
their hearts were turned from the Lord their God, and they did
stone the prophets and did cast them out from among them.

3 Nephi 7:15
 15 And it came to pass that Nephi--having been visited by angels
and also the voice of the Lord, therefore having seen angels, and
being eye-witness, and having had power given unto him that he
might know concerning the ministry of Christ, and also being
eye-witness to their quick return from righteousness unto their
wickedness and abominations;

3 Nephi 7:16
 16 Therefore, being grieved for the hardness of their hearts and
the blindness of their minds--went forth among them in that same
year, and began to testify, boldly, repentance and remission of
sins through faith on the Lord Jesus Christ.

3 Nephi 7:17
 17 And he did minister many things unto them; and all of them
cannot be written, and a part of them would not suffice,
therefore they are not written in this book.  And Nephi did
minister with power and with great authority.

3 Nephi 7:18
 18 And it came to pass that they were angry with him, even
because he had greater power than they, for it were not possible
that they could disbelieve his words, for so great was his faith
on the Lord Jesus Christ that angels did minister unto him daily.

3 Nephi 7:19
 19 And in the name of Jesus did he cast out devils and unclean
spirits; and even his brother did he raise from the dead, after
he had been stoned and suffered death by the people.

3 Nephi 7:20
 20 And the people saw it, and did witness of it, and were angry
with him because of his power; and he did also do many more
miracles, in the sight of the people, in the name of Jesus.

3 Nephi 7:21
 21 And it came to pass that the thirty and first year did pass
away, and there were but few who were converted unto the Lord;
but as many as were converted did truly signify unto the people
that they had been visited by the power and Spirit of God, which
was in Jesus Christ, in whom they believed.

3 Nephi 7:22
 22 And as many as had devils cast out from them, and were healed
of their sicknesses and their infirmities, did truly manifest
unto the people that they had been wrought upon by the Spirit of
God, and had been healed; and they did show forth signs also and
did do some miracles among the people.

3 Nephi 7:23
 23 Thus passed away the thirty and second year also.  And Nephi
did cry unto the people in the commencement of the thirty and
third year; and he did preach unto them repentance and remission
of sins.

3 Nephi 7:24
 24 Now I would have you to remember also, that there were none
who were brought unto repentance who were not baptized with
water.

3 Nephi 7:25
 25 Therefore, there were ordained of Nephi, men unto this
ministry, that all such as should come unto them should be
baptized with water, and this as a witness and a testimony before
God, and unto the people, that they had repented and received a
remission of their sins.

3 Nephi 7:26
 26 And there were many in the commencement of this year that
were baptized unto repentance; and thus the more part of the year
did pass away.

3 Nephi 8
Chapter 8

3 Nephi 8:1
 1 And now it came to pass that according to our record, and we
know our record to be true, for behold, it was a just man who did
keep the record--for he truly did many miracles in the name of
Jesus; and there was not any man who could do a miracle in the
name of Jesus save he were cleansed every whit from his
iniquity--

3 Nephi 8:2
 2 And now it came to pass, if there was no mistake made by this
man in the reckoning of our time, the thirty and third year had
passed away;

3 Nephi 8:3
 3 And the people began to look with great earnestness for the
sign which had been given by the prophet Samuel, the Lamanite,
yea, for the time that there should be darkness for the space of
three days over the face of the land.

3 Nephi 8:4
 4 And there began to be great doubtings and disputations among
the people, notwithstanding so many signs had been given.

3 Nephi 8:5
 5 And it came to pass in the thirty and fourth year, in the
first month, on the fourth day of the month, there arose a great
storm, such an one as never had been known in all the land.

3 Nephi 8:6
 6 And there was also a great and terrible tempest; and there was
terrible thunder, insomuch that it did shake the whole earth as
if it was about to divide asunder.

3 Nephi 8:7
 7 And there were exceedingly sharp lightnings, such as never had
been known in all the land.

3 Nephi 8:8
 8 And the city of Zarahemla did take fire.

3 Nephi 8:9
 9 And the city of Moroni did sink into the depths of the sea,
and the inhabitants thereof were drowned.

3 Nephi 8:10
 10 And the earth was carried up upon the city of Moronihah that
in the place of the city there became a great mountain.

3 Nephi 8:11
 11 And there was a great and terrible destruction in the land
southward.

3 Nephi 8:12
 12 But behold, there was a more great and terrible destruction
in the land northward; for behold, the whole face of the land was
changed, because of the tempest and the whirlwinds and the
thunderings and the lightnings, and the exceedingly great quaking
of the whole earth;

3 Nephi 8:13
 13 And the highways were broken up, and the level roads were
spoiled, and many smooth places became rough.

3 Nephi 8:14
 14 And many great and notable cities were sunk, and many were
burned, and many were shaken till the buildings thereof had
fallen to the earth, and the inhabitants thereof were slain, and
the places were left desolate.

3 Nephi 8:15
 15 And there were some cities which remained; but the damage
thereof was exceedingly great, and there were many of them who
were slain.

3 Nephi 8:16
 16 And there were some who were carried away in the whirlwind;
and whither they went no man knoweth, save they know that they
were carried away.

3 Nephi 8:17
 17 And thus the face of the whole earth became deformed, because
of the tempests, and the thunderings, and the lightnings, and the
quaking of the earth.

3 Nephi 8:18
 18 And behold, the rocks were rent in twain; they were broken up
upon the face of the whole earth, insomuch that they were found
in broken fragments, and in seams and in cracks, upon all the
face of the land.

3 Nephi 8:19
 19 And it came to pass that when the thunderings, and the
lightnings, and the storm, and the tempest, and the quakings of
the earth did cease--for behold, they did last for about the
space of three hours; and it was said by some that the time was
greater; nevertheless, all these great and terrible things were
done in about the space of three hours--and then behold, there
was darkness upon the face of the land.

3 Nephi 8:20
 20 And it came to pass that there was thick darkness upon all
the face of the land, insomuch that the inhabitants thereof who
had not fallen could feel the vapor of darkness;

3 Nephi 8:21
 21 And there could be no light, because of the darkness, neither
candles, neither torches; neither could there be fire kindled
with their fine and exceedingly dry wood, so that there could not
be any light at all;

3 Nephi 8:22
 22 And there was not any light seen, neither fire, nor glimmer,
neither the sun, nor the moon, nor the stars, for so great were
the mists of darkness which were upon the face of the land.

3 Nephi 8:23
 23 And it came to pass that it did last for the space of three
days that there was no light seen; and there was great mourning
and howling and weeping among all the people continually; yea,
great were the groanings of the people, because of the darkness
and the great destruction which had come upon them.

3 Nephi 8:24
 24 And in one place they were heard to cry, saying: O that we
had repented before this great and terrible day, and then would
our brethren have been spared, and they would not have been
burned in that great city Zarahemla.

3 Nephi 8:25
 25 And in another place they were heard to cry and mourn,
saying: O that we had repented before this great and terrible
day, and had not killed and stoned the prophets, and cast them
out; then would our mothers and our fair daughters, and our
children have been spared, and not have been buried up in that
great city Moronihah.  And thus were the howlings of the people
great and terrible.

3 Nephi 9
Chapter 9

3 Nephi 9:1
 1 And it came to pass that there was a voice heard among all the
inhabitants of the earth, upon all the face of this land, crying:




3 Nephi 10
Chapter 10

3 Nephi 10:1
 1 And now behold, it came to pass that all the people of the
land did hear these sayings, and did witness of it.  And after
these sayings there was silence in the land for the space of many
hours;

3 Nephi 10:2
 2 For so great was the astonishment of the people that they did
cease lamenting and howling for the loss of their kindred which
had been slain; therefore there was silence in all the land for
the space of many hours.

3 Nephi 10:3
 3 And it came to pass that there came a voice again unto the
people, and all the people did hear, and did witness of it,
saying:


3 Nephi 10:8
 8 And now it came to pass that after the people had heard these
words, behold, they began to weep and howl again because of the
loss of their kindred and friends.

3 Nephi 10:9
 9 And it came to pass that thus did the three days pass away. 
And it was in the morning, and the darkness dispersed from off
the face of the land, and the earth did cease to tremble, and the
rocks did cease to rend, and the dreadful groanings did cease,
and all the tumultuous noises did pass away.

3 Nephi 10:10
 10 And the earth did cleave together again, that it stood; and
the mourning, and the weeping, and the wailing of the people who
were spared alive did cease; and their mourning was turned into
joy, and their lamentations into the praise and thanksgiving unto
the Lord Jesus Christ, their Redeemer.

3 Nephi 10:11
 11 And thus far were the scriptures fulfilled which had been
spoken by the prophets.

3 Nephi 10:12
 12 And it was the more righteous part of the people who were
saved, and it was they who received the prophets and stoned them
not; and it was they who had not shed the blood of the saints,
who were spared--

3 Nephi 10:13
 13 And they were spared and were not sunk and buried up in the
earth; and they were not drowned in the depths of the sea; and
they were not burned by fire, neither were they fallen upon and
crushed to death; and they were not carried away in the
whirlwind; neither were they overpowered by the vapor of smoke
and of darkness.

3 Nephi 10:14
 14 And now, whoso readeth, let him understand; he that hath the
scriptures, let him search them, and see and behold if all these
deaths and destructions by fire, and by smoke, and by tempests,
and by whirlwinds, and by the opening of the earth to receive
them, and all these things are not unto the fulfilling of the
prophecies of many of the holy prophets.

3 Nephi 10:15
 15 Behold, I say unto you, Yea, many have testified of these
things at the coming of Christ, and were slain because they
testified of these things.

3 Nephi 10:16
 16 Yea, the prophet Zenos did testify of these things, and also
Zenock spake concerning these things, because they testified
particularly concerning us, who are the remnant of their seed.

3 Nephi 10:17
 17 Behold, our father Jacob also testified concerning a remnant
of the seed of Joseph.  And behold, are not we a remnant of the
seed of Joseph?  And these things which testify of us, are they
not written upon the plates of brass which our father Lehi
brought out of Jerusalem?

3 Nephi 10:18
 18 And it came to pass that in the ending of the thirty and
fourth year, behold, I will show unto you that the people of
Nephi who were spared, and also those who had been called
Lamanites, who had been spared, did have great favors shown unto
them, and great blessings poured out upon their heads, insomuch
that soon after the ascension of Christ into heaven he did truly
manifest himself unto them--

3 Nephi 10:19
 19 Showing his body unto them, and ministering unto them; and an
account of his ministry shall be given hereafter.  Therefore for
this time I make an end of my sayings.

3 Nephi 11
Chapter 11

3 Nephi 11:1
 1 And now it came to pass that there were a great multitude
gathered together, of the people of Nephi, round about the temple
which was in the land Bountiful; and they were marveling and
wondering one with another, and were showing one to another the
great and marvelous change which had taken place.
3 Nephi 11:2
 2 And they were also conversing about this Jesus Christ, of whom
the sign had been given concerning his death.

3 Nephi 11:3
 3 And it came to pass that while they were thus conversing one
with another, they heard a voice as if it came out of heaven; and
they cast their eyes round about, for they understood not the
voice which they heard; and it was not a harsh voice, neither was
it a loud voice; nevertheless, and notwithstanding it being a
small voice it did pierce them that did hear to the center,
insomuch that there was no part of their frame that it did not
cause to quake; yea, it did pierce them to the very soul, and did
cause their hearts to burn.

3 Nephi 11:4
 4 And it came to pass that again they heard the voice, and they
understood it not.

3 Nephi 11:5
 5 And again the third time they did hear the voice, and did open
their ears to hear it; and their eyes were towards the sound
thereof; and they did look steadfastly towards heaven, from
whence the sound came.

3 Nephi 11:6
 6 And behold, the third time they did understand the voice which
they heard; and it said unto them:




3 Nephi 11:8
 8 And it came to pass, as they understood they cast their eyes
up again towards heaven; and behold, they saw a Man descending
out of heaven; and he was clothed in a white robe; and he came
down and stood in the midst of them; and the eyes of the whole
multitude were turned upon him, and they durst not open their
mouths, even one to another, and wist not what it meant, for they
thought it was an angel that had appeared unto them.

3 Nephi 11:9
 9 And it came to pass that he stretched forth his hand and spake
unto the people, saying:



3 Nephi 11:12
 12 And it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words
the whole multitude fell to the earth; for they remembered that
it had been prophesied among them that Christ should show himself
unto them after his ascension into heaven.

3 Nephi 11:13
 13 And it came to pass that the Lord spake unto them saying:



3 Nephi 11:15
 15 And it came to pass that the multitude went forth, and thrust
their hands into his side, and did feel the prints of the nails
in his hands and in his feet; and this they did do, going forth
one by one until they had all gone forth, and did see with their
eyes and did feel with their hands, and did know of a surety and
did bear record, that it was he, of whom it was written by the
prophets, that should come.

3 Nephi 11:16
 16 And when they had all gone forth and had witnessed for
themselves, they did cry out with one accord, saying:

3 Nephi 11:17
 17 Hosanna!  Blessed be the name of the Most High God!  And they
did fall down at the feet of Jesus, and did worship him.

3 Nephi 11:18
 18 And it came to pass that he spake unto Nephi (for Nephi was
among the multitude) and he commanded him that he should come
forth.

3 Nephi 11:19
 19 And Nephi arose and went forth, and bowed himself before the
Lord and did kiss his feet.

3 Nephi 11:20
 20 And the Lord commanded him that he should arise.  And he
arose and stood before him.

3 Nephi 11:21
 21 And the Lord said unto him: I give unto you power that ye
shall baptize this people when I am again ascended into heaven.

3 Nephi 11:22
 22 And again the Lord called others, and said unto them
likewise; and he gave unto them power to baptize.  And he said
unto them:



3 Nephi 12
Chapter 12

3 Nephi 12:1
 1 And it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words
unto Nephi, and to those who had been called, (now the number of
them who had been called, and received power and authority to
baptize, was twelve) and behold, he stretched forth his hand unto
the multitude, and cried unto them, saying:



3 Nephi 13:25
 25 And now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these
words he looked upon the twelve whom he had chosen, and said unto
them:




3 Nephi 14
Chapter 14

3 Nephi 14:1
 1 And now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words
he turned again to the multitude, and did open his mouth unto
them again, saying:


3 Nephi 15
Chapter 15

3 Nephi 15:1
 1 And now it came to pass that when Jesus had ended these
sayings he cast his eyes round about on the multitude, and said
unto them: 



3 Nephi 15:2
 2 And it came to pass that when Jesus had said these words he
perceived that there were some among them who marveled, and
wondered what he would concerning the law of Moses; for they
understood not the saying that old things had passed away, and
that all things had become new.

3 Nephi 15:3
 3 And he said unto them:


3 Nephi 15:11
 11 And now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these
words, he said unto those twelve whom he had chosen:


3 Nephi 17
Chapter 17

3 Nephi 17:1
 1 Behold, now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these
words he looked round about again on the multitude, and he said
unto them:



3 Nephi 17:5
 5 And it came to pass that when Jesus had thus spoken, he cast
his eyes round about again on the multitude, and beheld they were
in tears, and did look steadfastly upon him as if they would ask
him to tarry a little longer with them.

3 Nephi 17:6
 6 And he said unto them:



3 Nephi 17:9
 9 And it came to pass that when he had thus spoken, all the
multitude, with one accord, did go forth with their sick and
their afflicted, and their lame, and with their blind, and with
their dumb, and with all them that were afflicted in any manner;
and he did heal them every one as they were brought forth unto
him.

3 Nephi 17:10
 10 And they did all, both they who had been healed and they who
were whole, bow down at his feet, and did worship him; and as
many as could come for the multitude did kiss his feet, insomuch
that they did bathe his feet with their tears.

3 Nephi 17:11
 11 And it came to pass that he commanded that their little
children should be brought.

3 Nephi 17:12
 12 So they brought their little children and set them down upon
the ground round about him, and Jesus stood in the midst; and the
multitude gave way till they had all been brought unto him.

3 Nephi 17:13
 13 And it came to pass that when they had all been brought, and
Jesus stood in the midst, he commanded the multitude that they
should kneel down upon the ground.

3 Nephi 17:14
 14 And it came to pass that when they had knelt upon the ground,
Jesus groaned within himself, and said:


3 Nephi 17:15
 15 And when he had said these words, he himself also knelt upon
the earth; and behold he prayed unto the Father, and the things
which he prayed cannot be written, and the multitude did bear
record who heard him.

3 Nephi 17:16
 16 And after this manner do they bear record: The eye hath never
seen, neither hath the ear heard, before, so great and marvelous
things as we saw and heard Jesus speak unto the Father;

3 Nephi 17:17
 17 And no tongue can speak, neither can there be written by any
man, neither can the hearts of men conceive so great and
marvelous things as we both saw and heard Jesus speak; and no one
can conceive of the joy which filled our souls at the time we
heard him pray for us unto the Father.

3 Nephi 17:18
 18 And it came to pass that when Jesus had made an end of
praying unto the Father, he arose; but so great was the joy of
the multitude that they were overcome.

3 Nephi 17:19
 19 And it came to pass that Jesus spake unto them, and bade them
arise.

3 Nephi 17:20
 20 And they arose from the earth, and he said unto them: Blessed
are ye because of your faith.  And now behold, my joy is full.

3 Nephi 17:21
 21 And when he had said these words, he wept, and the multitude
bare record of it, and he took their little children, one by one,
and blessed them, and prayed unto the Father for them.

3 Nephi 17:22
 22 And when he had done this he wept again;

3 Nephi 17:23
 23 And he spake unto the multitude, and said unto them: Behold
your little ones.

3 Nephi 17:24
 24 And as they looked to behold they cast their eyes towards
heaven, and they saw the heavens open, and they saw angels
descending out of heaven as it were in the midst of fire; and
they came down and encircled those little ones about, and they
were encircled about with fire; and the angels did minister unto
them.

3 Nephi 17:25
 25 And the multitude did see and hear and bear record; and they
know that their record is true for they all of them did see and
hear, every man for himself; and they were in number about two
thousand and five hundred souls; and they did consist of men,
women, and children.

3 Nephi 18
Chapter 18

3 Nephi 18:1
 1 And it came to pass that Jesus commanded his disciples that
they should bring forth some bread and wine unto him.

3 Nephi 18:2
 2 And while they were gone for bread and wine, he commanded the
multitude that they should sit themselves down upon the earth.

3 Nephi 18:3
 3 And when the disciples had come with bread and wine, he took
of the bread and brake and blessed it; and he gave unto the
disciples and commanded that they should eat.

3 Nephi 18:4
 4 And when they had eaten and were filled, he commanded that
they should give unto the multitude.

3 Nephi 18:5
 5 And when the multitude had eaten and were filled, he said unto
the disciples:



3 Nephi 18:8
 8 And it came to pass that when he said these words, he
commanded his disciples that they should take of the wine of the
cup and drink of it, and that they should also give unto the
multitude that they might drink of it.

3 Nephi 18:9
 9 And it came to pass that they did so, and did drink of it and
were filled; and they gave unto the multitude, and they did
drink, and they were filled.

3 Nephi 18:10
 10 And when the disciples had done this, Jesus said unto them:


3 Nephi 18:17
 17 And it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words
unto his disciples, he turned again unto the multitude and said
unto them:


3 Nephi 18:26
 26 And now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these
words, he turned his eyes again upon the disciples whom he had
chosen, and said unto them:


3 Nephi 18:36
 36 And it came to pass that when Jesus had made an end of these
sayings, he touched with his hand the disciples whom he had
chosen, one by one, even until he had touched them all, and spake
unto them as he touched them.

3 Nephi 18:37
 37 And the multitude heard not the words which he spake,
therefore they did not bear record; but the disciples bare record
that he gave them power to give the Holy Ghost.  And I will show
unto you hereafter that this record is true.

3 Nephi 18:38
 38 And it came to pass that when Jesus had touched them all,
there came a cloud and overshadowed the multitude that they could
not see Jesus.

3 Nephi 18:39
 39 And while they were overshadowed he departed from them, and
ascended into heaven.  And the disciples saw and did bear record
that he ascended again into heaven.

3 Nephi 19
Chapter 19

3 Nephi 19:1
 1 And now it came to pass that when Jesus had ascended into
heaven, the multitude did disperse, and every man did take his
wife and his children and did return to his own home.

3 Nephi 19:2
 2 And it was noised abroad among the people immediately, before
it was yet dark, that the multitude had seen Jesus, and that he
had ministered unto them, and that he would also show himself on
the morrow unto the multitude.

3 Nephi 19:3
 3 Yea, and even all the night it was noised abroad concerning
Jesus; and insomuch did they send forth unto the people that
there were many, yea, an exceedingly great number, did labor
exceedingly all that night, that they might be on the morrow in
the place where Jesus should show himself unto the multitude.

3 Nephi 19:4
 4 And it came to pass that on the morrow, when the multitude was
gathered together, behold, Nephi and his brother whom he had
raised from the dead, whose name was Timothy, and also his son,
whose name was Jonas, and also Mathoni, and Mathonihah, his
brother, and Kumen, and Kumenonhi, and Jeremiah, and Shemnon, and
Jonas, and Zedekiah, and Isaiah--now these were the names of the
disciples whom Jesus had chosen--and it came to pass that they
went forth and stood in the midst of the multitude.

3 Nephi 19:5
 5 And behold, the multitude was so great that they did cause
that they should be separated into twelve bodies.

3 Nephi 19:6
 6 And the twelve did teach the multitude; and behold, they did
cause that the multitude should kneel down upon the face of the
earth, and should pray unto the Father in the name of Jesus.

3 Nephi 19:7
 7 And the disciples did pray unto the Father also in the name of
Jesus.  And it came to pass that they arose and ministered unto
the people.

3 Nephi 19:8
 8 And when they had ministered those same words which Jesus had
spoken--nothing varying from the words which Jesus had
spoken--behold, they knelt again and prayed to the Father in the
name of Jesus.

3 Nephi 19:9
 9 And they did pray for that which they most desired; and they
desired that the Holy Ghost should be given unto them.

3 Nephi 19:10
 10 And when they had thus prayed they went down unto the water's
edge, and the multitude followed them.

3 Nephi 19:11
 11 And it came to pass that Nephi went down into the water and
was baptized.

3 Nephi 19:12
 12 And he came up out of the water and began to baptize.  And he
baptized all those whom Jesus had chosen.

3 Nephi 19:13
 13 And it came to pass when they were all baptized and had come
up out of the water, the Holy Ghost did fall upon them, and they
were filled with the Holy Ghost and with fire.

3 Nephi 19:14
 14 And behold, they were encircled about as if it were by fire;
and it came down from heaven, and the multitude did witness it,
and did bear record; and angels did come down out of heaven and
did minister unto them.

3 Nephi 19:15
 15 And it came to pass that while the angels were ministering
unto the disciples, behold, Jesus came and stood in the midst and
ministered unto them.

3 Nephi 19:16
 16 And it came to pass that he spake unto the multitude, and
commanded them that they should kneel down again upon the earth,
and also that his disciples should kneel down upon the earth.

3 Nephi 19:17
 17 And it came to pass that when they had all knelt down upon
the earth, he commanded his disciples that they should pray.

3 Nephi 19:18
 18 And behold, they began to pray; and they did pray unto Jesus,
calling him their Lord and their God.

3 Nephi 19:19
 19 And it came to pass that Jesus departed out of the midst of
them, and went a little way off from them and bowed himself to
the earth, and he said:


3 Nephi 19:24
 24 And it came to pass that when Jesus had thus prayed unto the
Father, he came unto his disciples, and behold, they did still
continue, without ceasing, to pray unto him; and they did not
multiply many words, for it was given unto them what they should
pray, and they were filled with desire.

3 Nephi 19:25
 25 And it came to pass that Jesus blessed them as they did pray
unto him; and his countenance did smile upon them, and the light
of his countenance did shine upon them, and behold they were as
white as the countenance and also the garments of Jesus; and
behold the whiteness thereof did exceed all the whiteness, yea,
even there could be nothing upon earth so white as the whiteness
thereof.

3 Nephi 19:26
 26 And Jesus said unto them: Pray on; nevertheless they did not
cease to pray.

3 Nephi 19:27
 27 And he turned from them again, and went a little way off and
bowed himself to the earth; and he prayed again unto the Father,
saying:


3 Nephi 19:32
 32 And tongue cannot speak the words which he prayed, neither
can be written by man the words which he prayed.

3 Nephi 19:33
 33 And the multitude did hear and do bear record; and their
hearts were open and they did understand in their hearts the
words which he prayed.

3 Nephi 19:34
 34 Nevertheless, so great and marvelous were the words which he
prayed that they cannot be written, neither can they be uttered
by man.

3 Nephi 19:35
 35 And it came to pass that when Jesus had made an end of
praying he came again to the disciples, and said unto them:


3 Nephi 20
Chapter 20

3 Nephi 20:1
 1 And it came to pass that he commanded the multitude that they
should cease to pray, and also his disciples.  And he commanded
them that they should not cease to pray in their hearts.

3 Nephi 20:2
 2 And he commanded them that they should arise and stand up upon
their feet.  And they arose up and stood upon their feet.

3 Nephi 20:3
 3 And it came to pass that he brake bread again and blessed it,
and gave to the disciples to eat.

3 Nephi 20:4
 4 And when they had eaten he commanded them that they should
break bread, and give unto the multitude.

3 Nephi 20:5
 5 And when they had given unto the multitude he also gave them
wine to drink, and commanded them that they should give unto the
multitude.

3 Nephi 20:6
 6 Now, there had been no bread, neither wine, brought by the
disciples, neither by the multitude;

3 Nephi 20:7
 7 But he truly gave unto them bread to eat, and also wine to
drink.

3 Nephi 20:8
 8 And he said unto them: He that eateth this bread eateth of my
body to his soul; and he that drinketh of this wine drinketh of
my blood to his soul; and his soul shall never hunger nor thirst,
but shall be filled.

3 Nephi 20:9
 9 Now, when the multitude had all eaten and drunk, behold, they
were filled with the Spirit; and they did cry out with one voice,
and gave glory to Jesus, whom they both saw and heard.

3 Nephi 20:10
 10 And it came to pass that when they had all given glory unto
Jesus, he said unto them:

Behold now I finish the commandment
which the Father hath commanded me concerning this people, who
are a remnant of the house of Israel.

3 Nephi 20:11
 11 Ye remember that I spake unto you, and said that when the
words of Isaiah should be fulfilled--behold they are written, ye
have them before you, therefore search them--

3 Nephi 20:12
 12 And verily, verily, I say unto you, that when they shall be
fulfilled then is the fulfilling of the covenant which the Father
hath made unto his people, O house of Israel.

3 Nephi 20:13
 13 And then shall the remnants, which shall be scattered abroad
upon the face of the earth, be gathered in from the east and from
the west, and from the south and from the north; and they shall
be brought to the knowledge of the Lord their God, who hath
redeemed them.

3 Nephi 20:14
 14 And the Father hath commanded me that I should give unto you
this land, for your inheritance.

3 Nephi 20:15
 15 And I say unto you, that if the Gentiles do not repent after
the blessing which they shall receive, after they have scattered
my people--

3 Nephi 20:16
 16 Then shall ye, who are a remnant of the house of Jacob, go
forth among them; and ye shall be in the midst of them who shall
be many; and ye shall be among them as a lion among the beasts of
the forest, and as a young lion among the flocks of sheep, who,
if he goeth through both treadeth down and teareth in pieces, and
none can deliver.

3 Nephi 20:17
 17 Thy hand shall be lifted up upon thine adversaries, and all
thine enemies shall be cut off.

3 Nephi 20:18
 18 And I will gather my people together as a man gathereth his
sheaves into the floor.

3 Nephi 20:19
 19 For I will make my people with whom the Father hath
covenanted, yea, I will make thy horn iron, and I will make thy
hoofs brass.  And thou shalt beat in pieces many people; and I
will consecrate their gain unto the Lord, and their substance
unto the Lord of the whole earth.  And behold, I am he who doeth
it.

3 Nephi 20:20
 20 And it shall come to pass, saith the Father, that the sword
of my justice shall hang over them at that day; and except they
repent it shall fall upon them, saith the Father, yea, even upon
all the nations of the Gentiles.

3 Nephi 20:21
 21 And it shall come to pass that I will establish my people, O
house of Israel.

3 Nephi 20:22
 22 And behold, this people will I establish in this land, unto
the fulfilling of the covenant which I made with your father
Jacob; and it shall be a New Jerusalem.  And the powers of heaven
shall be in the midst of this people; yea, even I will be in the
midst of you.

3 Nephi 20:23
 23 Behold, I am he of whom Moses spake, saying: A prophet shall
the Lord your God raise up unto you of your brethren, like unto
me; him shall ye hear in all things whatsoever he shall say unto
you.  And it shall come to pass that every soul who will not hear
that prophet shall be cut off from among the people.

3 Nephi 20:24
 24 Verily I say unto you, yea, and all the prophets from Samuel
and those that follow after, as many as have spoken, have
testified of me.

3 Nephi 20:25
 25 And behold, ye are the children of the prophets; and ye are
of the house of Israel; and ye are of the covenant which the
Father made with your fathers, saying unto Abraham: And in thy
seed shall all the kindreds of the earth be blessed.

3 Nephi 20:26
 26 The Father having raised me up unto you first, and sent me to
bless you in turning away every one of you from his iniquities;
and this because ye are the children of the covenant--

3 Nephi 20:27
 27 And after that ye were blessed then fulfilleth the Father the
covenant which he made with Abraham, saying: In thy seed shall
all the kindreds of the earth be blessed--unto the pouring out of
the Holy Ghost through me upon the Gentiles, which blessing upon
the Gentiles shall make them mighty above all, unto the
scattering of my people, O house of Israel.

3 Nephi 20:28
 28 And they shall be a scourge unto the people of this land. 
Nevertheless, when they shall have received the fulness of my
gospel, then if they shall harden their hearts against me I will
return their iniquities upon their own heads, saith the Father.

3 Nephi 20:29
 29 And I will remember the covenant which I have made with my
people; and I have covenanted with them that I would gather them
together in mine own due time, that I would give unto them again
the land of their fathers for their inheritance, which is the
land of Jerusalem, which is the promised land unto them forever,
saith the Father.

3 Nephi 20:30
 30 And it shall come to pass that the time cometh, when the
fulness of my gospel shall be preached unto them;

3 Nephi 20:31
 31 And they shall believe in me, that I am Jesus Christ, the Son
of God, and shall pray unto the Father in my name.

3 Nephi 20:32
 32 Then shall their watchmen lift up their voice, and with the
voice together shall they sing; for they shall see eye to eye.

3 Nephi 20:33
 33 Then will the Father gather them together again, and give
unto them Jerusalem for the land of their inheritance.

3 Nephi 20:34
 34 Then shall they break forth into joy--Sing together, ye waste
places of Jerusalem; for the Father hath comforted his people, he
hath redeemed Jerusalem.

3 Nephi 20:35
 35 The Father hath made bare his holy arm in the eyes of all the
nations; and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of
the Father; and the Father and I are one.

3 Nephi 20:36
 36 And then shall be brought to pass that which is written:
Awake, awake again, and put on thy strength, O Zion; put on thy
beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city, for henceforth
there shall no more come into thee the uncircumcised and the
unclean.

3 Nephi 20:37
 37 Shake thyself from the dust; arise, sit down, O Jerusalem;
loose thyself from the bands of thy neck, O captive daughter of
Zion.

3 Nephi 20:38
 38 For thus saith the Lord: Ye have sold yourselves for naught,
and ye shall be redeemed without money.

3 Nephi 20:39
 39 Verily, verily, I say unto you, that my people shall know my
name; yea, in that day they shall know that I am he that doth
speak.

3 Nephi 20:40
 40 And then shall they say: How beautiful upon the mountains are
the feet of him that bringeth good tidings unto them, that
publisheth peace; that bringeth good tidings unto them of good,
that publisheth salvation; that saith unto Zion: Thy God
reigneth!

3 Nephi 20:41
 41 And then shall a cry go forth: Depart ye, depart ye, go ye
out from thence, touch not that which is unclean; go ye out of
the midst of her; be ye clean that bear the vessels of the Lord.

3 Nephi 20:42
 42 For ye shall not go out with haste nor go by flight; for the
Lord will go before you, and the God of Israel shall be your
rearward.

3 Nephi 20:43
 43 Behold, my servant shall deal prudently; he shall be exalted
and extolled and be very high.

3 Nephi 20:44
 44 As many were astonished at thee--his visage was so marred,
more than any man, and his form more than the sons of men--

3 Nephi 20:45
 45 So shall he sprinkle many nations; the kings shall shut their
mouths at him, for that which had not been told them shall they
see; and that which they had not heard shall they consider.

3 Nephi 20:46
 46 Verily, verily, I say unto you, all these things shall surely
come, even as the Father hath commanded me.  Then shall this
covenant which the Father hath covenanted with his people be
fulfilled; and then shall Jerusalem be inhabited again with my
people, and it shall be the land of their inheritance.

3 Nephi 21
Chapter 21

3 Nephi 21:1
 1 And verily I say unto you, I give unto you a sign, that ye may
know the time when these things shall be about to take
place--that I shall gather in, from their long dispersion, my
people, O house of Israel, and shall establish again among them
my Zion;

3 Nephi 21:2
 2 And behold, this is the thing which I will give unto you for a
sign--for verily I say unto you that when these things which I
declare unto you, and which I shall declare unto you hereafter of
myself, and by the power of the Holy Ghost which shall be given
unto you of the Father, shall be made known unto the Gentiles
that they may know concerning this people who are a remnant of
the house of Jacob, and concerning this my people who shall be
scattered by them;

3 Nephi 21:3
 3 Verily, verily, I say unto you, when these things shall be
made known unto them of the Father, and shall come forth of the
Father, from them unto you;

3 Nephi 21:4
 4 For it is wisdom in the Father that they should be established
in this land, and be set up as a free people by the power of the
Father, that these things might come forth from them unto a
remnant of your seed, that the covenant of the Father may be
fulfilled which he hath covenanted with his people, O house of
Israel;

3 Nephi 21:5
 5 Therefore, when these works and the works which shall be
wrought among you hereafter shall come forth from the Gentiles,
unto your seed which shall dwindle in unbelief because of
iniquity;

3 Nephi 21:6
 6 For thus it behooveth the Father that it should come forth
from the Gentiles, that he may show forth his power unto the
Gentiles, for this cause that the Gentiles, if they will not
harden their hearts, that they may repent and come unto me and be
baptized in my name and know of the true points of my doctrine,
that they may be numbered among my people, O house of Israel;

3 Nephi 21:7
 7 And when these things come to pass that thy seed shall begin
to know these things--it shall be a sign unto them, that they may
know that the work of the Father hath already commenced unto the
fulfilling of the covenant which he hath made unto the people who
are of the house of Israel.

3 Nephi 21:8
 8 And when that day shall come, it shall come to pass that kings
shall shut their mouths; for that which had not been told them
shall they see; and that which they had not heard shall they
consider.

3 Nephi 21:9
 9 For in that day, for my sake shall the Father work a work,
which shall be a great and a marvelous work among them; and there
shall be among them those who will not believe it, although a man
shall declare it unto them.

3 Nephi 21:10
 10 But behold, the life of my servant shall be in my hand;
therefore they shall not hurt him, although he shall be marred
because of them.  Yet I will heal him, for I will show unto them
that my wisdom is greater than the cunning of the devil.

3 Nephi 21:11
 11 Therefore it shall come to pass that whosoever will not
believe in my words, who am Jesus Christ, which the Father shall
cause him to bring forth unto the Gentiles, and shall give unto
him power that he shall bring them forth unto the Gentiles, (it
shall be done even as Moses said) they shall be cut off from
among my people who are of the covenant.

3 Nephi 21:12
 12 And my people who are a remnant of Jacob shall be among the
Gentiles, yea, in the midst of them as a lion among the beasts of
the forest, as a young lion among the flocks of sheep, who, if he
go through both treadeth down and teareth in pieces, and none can
deliver.

3 Nephi 21:13
 13 Their hand shall be lifted up upon their adversaries, and all
their enemies shall be cut off.

3 Nephi 21:14
 14 Yea, wo be unto the Gentiles except they repent; for it shall
come to pass in that day, saith the Father, that I will cut off
thy horses out of the midst of thee, and I will destroy thy
chariots;

3 Nephi 21:15
 15 And I will cut off the cities of thy land, and throw down all
thy strongholds;

3 Nephi 21:16
 16 And I will cut off witchcrafts out of thy land, and thou
shalt have no more soothsayers;

3 Nephi 21:17
 17 Thy graven images I will also cut off, and thy standing
images out of the midst of thee, and thou shalt no more worship
the works of thy hands;

3 Nephi 21:18
 18 And I will pluck up thy groves out of the midst of thee; so
will I destroy thy cities.

3 Nephi 21:19
 19 And it shall come to pass that all lyings, and deceivings,
and envyings, and strifes, and priestcrafts, and whoredoms, shall
be done away.

3 Nephi 21:20
 20 For it shall come to pass, saith the Father, that at that day
whosoever will not repent and come unto my Beloved Son, them will
I cut off from among my people, O house of Israel;

3 Nephi 21:21
 21 And I will execute vengeance and fury upon them, even as upon
the heathen, such as they have not heard.

3 Nephi 21:22
 22 But if they will repent and hearken unto my words, and harden
not their hearts, I will establish my church among them, and they
shall come in unto the covenant and be numbered among this the
remnant of Jacob, unto whom I have given this land for their
inheritance;

3 Nephi 21:23
 23 And they shall assist my people, the remnant of Jacob, and
also as many of the house of Israel as shall come, that they may
build a city, which shall be called the New Jerusalem.

3 Nephi 21:24
 24 And then shall they assist my people that they may be
gathered in, who are scattered upon all the face of the land, in
unto the New Jerusalem.

3 Nephi 21:25
 25 And then shall the power of heaven come down among them; and
I also will be in the midst.

3 Nephi 21:26
 26 And then shall the work of the Father commence at that day,
even when this gospel shall be preached among the remnant of this
people.  Verily I say unto you, at that day shall the work of the
Father commence among all the dispersed of my people, yea, even
the tribes which have been lost, which the Father hath led away
out of Jerusalem.

3 Nephi 21:27
 27 Yea, the work shall commence among all the dispersed of my
people, with the Father to prepare the way whereby they may come
unto me, that they may call on the Father in my name.

3 Nephi 21:28
 28 Yea, and then shall the work commence, with the Father among
all nations in preparing the way whereby his people may be
gathered home to the land of their inheritance.

3 Nephi 21:29
 29 And they shall go out from all nations; and they shall not go
out in haste, nor go by flight, for I will go before them, saith
the Father, and I will be their rearward.

3 Nephi 22
Chapter 22

3 Nephi 22:1
 1 And then shall that which is written come to pass:


3 Nephi 23:6
 6 And now it came to pass that when Jesus had said these words
he said unto them again, after he had expounded all the
scriptures unto them which they had received, he said unto them:


3 Nephi 23:7
 7 And it came to pass that he said unto Nephi:


3 Nephi 23:8
 8 And when Nephi had brought forth the records, and laid them
before him, he cast his eyes upon them and said:


3 Nephi 23:10
 10 And his disciples answered him and said: Yea, Lord, Samuel
did prophesy according to thy words, and they were all fulfilled.

3 Nephi 23:11
 11 And Jesus said unto them:


3 Nephi 23:12
 12 And it came to pass that Nephi remembered that this thing had
not been written.

3 Nephi 23:13
 13 And it came to pass that Jesus commanded that it should be
written; therefore it was written according as he commanded.

3 Nephi 23:14
 14 And now it came to pass that when Jesus had expounded all the
scriptures in one, which they had written, he commanded them that
they should teach the things which he had expounded unto them.

3 Nephi 24
Chapter 24

3 Nephi 24:1
 1 And it came to pass that he commanded them that they should
write the words which the Father had given unto Malachi, which he
should tell unto them.  And it came to pass that after they were
written he expounded them.  And these are the words which he did
tell unto them, saying: 


3 Nephi 26
Chapter 26

3 Nephi 26:1
 1 And now it came to pass that when Jesus had told these things
he expounded them unto the multitude; and he did expound all
things unto them, both great and small.

3 Nephi 26:2
 2 And he saith: These scriptures, which ye had not with you, the
Father commanded that I should give unto you; for it was wisdom
in him that they should be given unto future generations.

3 Nephi 26:3
 3 And he did expound all things, even from the beginning until
the time that he should come in his glory--yea, even all things
which should come upon the face of the earth, even until the
elements should melt with fervent heat, and the earth should be
wrapt together as a scroll, and the heavens and the earth should
pass away;

3 Nephi 26:4
 4 And even unto the great and last day, when all people, and all
kindreds, and all nations and tongues shall stand before God, to
be judged of their works, whether they be good or whether they be
evil--

3 Nephi 26:5
 5 If they be good, to the resurrection of everlasting life; and
if they be evil, to the resurrection of damnation; being on a
parallel, the one on the one hand and the other on the other
hand, according to the mercy, and the justice, and the holiness
which is in Christ, who was before the world began.

3 Nephi 26:6
 6 And now there cannot be written in this book even a hundredth
part of the things which Jesus did truly teach unto the people;

3 Nephi 26:7
 7 But behold the plates of Nephi do contain the more part of the
things which he taught the people.

3 Nephi 26:8
 8 And these things have I written, which are a lesser part of
the things which he taught the people; and I have written them to
the intent that they may be brought again unto this people, from
the Gentiles, according to the words which Jesus hath spoken.

3 Nephi 26:9
 9 And when they shall have received this, which is expedient
that they should have first, to try their faith, and if it shall
so be that they shall believe these things then shall the greater
things be made manifest unto them.

3 Nephi 26:10
 10 And if it so be that they will not believe these things, then
shall the greater things be withheld from them, unto their
condemnation.

3 Nephi 26:11
 11 Behold, I was about to write them, all which were engraven
upon the plates of Nephi, but the Lord forbade it, saying: I will
try the faith of my people.

3 Nephi 26:12
 12 Therefore I, Mormon, do write the things which have been
commanded me of the Lord.  And now I, Mormon, make an end of my
sayings, and proceed to write the things which have been
commanded me.

3 Nephi 26:13
 13 Therefore, I would that ye should behold that the Lord truly
did teach the people, for the space of three days; and after that
he did show himself unto them oft, and did break bread oft, and
bless it, and give it unto them.

3 Nephi 26:14
 14 And it came to pass that he did teach and minister unto the
children of the multitude of whom hath been spoken, and he did
loose their tongues, and they did speak unto their fathers great
and marvelous things, even greater than he had revealed unto the
people; and he loosed their tongues that they could utter.

3 Nephi 26:15
 15 And it came to pass that after he had ascended into
heaven--the second time that he showed himself unto them, and had
gone unto the Father, after having healed all their sick, and
their lame, and opened the eyes of their blind and unstopped the
ears of the deaf, and even had done all manner of cures among
them, and raised a man from the dead, and had shown forth his
power unto them, and had ascended unto the Father--

3 Nephi 26:16
 16 Behold, it came to pass on the morrow that the multitude
gathered themselves together, and they both saw and heard these
children; yea, even babes did open their mouths and utter
marvelous things; and the things which they did utter were
forbidden that there should not any man write them.

3 Nephi 26:17
 17 And it came to pass that the disciples whom Jesus had chosen
began from that time forth to baptize and to teach as many as did
come unto them; and as many as were baptized in the name of Jesus
were filled with the Holy Ghost.

3 Nephi 26:18
 18 And many of them saw and heard unspeakable things, which are
not lawful to be written.

3 Nephi 26:19
 19 And they taught, and did minister one to another; and they
had all things common among them, every man dealing justly, one
with another.

3 Nephi 26:20
 20 And it came to pass that they did do all things even as Jesus
had commanded them.

3 Nephi 26:21
 21 And they who were baptized in the name of Jesus were called
the church of Christ.

3 Nephi 27
Chapter 27

3 Nephi 27:1
 1 And it came to pass that as the disciples of Jesus were
journeying and were preaching the things which they had both
heard and seen, and were baptizing in the name of Jesus, it came
to pass that the disciples were gathered together and were united
in mighty prayer and fasting.

3 Nephi 27:2
 2 And Jesus again showed himself unto them, for they were
praying unto the Father in his name; and Jesus came and stood in
the midst of them, and said unto them:


3 Nephi 27:3
 3 And they said unto him:

3 Nephi 27:4
 4 And the Lord said unto them: 


3 Nephi 27:33
 33 And it came to pass that when Jesus had ended these sayings
he said unto his disciples: 


3 Nephi 28
Chapter 28

3 Nephi 28:1
 1 And it came to pass when Jesus had said these words, he spake
unto his disciples, one by one, saying unto them:



3 Nephi 28:2
 2 And they all spake, save it were three, saying: We desire that
after we have lived unto the age of man, that our ministry,
wherein thou hast called us, may have an end, that we may
speedily come unto thee in thy kingdom.

3 Nephi 28:3
 3 And he said unto them: 



3 Nephi 28:4
 4 And when he had spoken unto them, he turned himself unto the
three, and said unto them:


3 Nephi 28:5
 5 And they sorrowed in their hearts, for they durst not speak
unto him the things which they desired.

3 Nephi 28:6
 6 And he said unto them:


3 Nephi 28:12
 12 And it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words,
he touched every one of them with his finger save it were the
three who were to tarry, and then he departed.

3 Nephi 28:13
 13 And behold, the heavens were opened, and they were caught up
into heaven, and saw and heard unspeakable things.

3 Nephi 28:14
 14 And it was forbidden them that they should utter; neither was
it given unto them power that they could utter the things which
they saw and heard;

3 Nephi 28:15
 15 And whether they were in the body or out of the body, they
could not tell; for it did seem unto them like a transfiguration
of them, that they were changed from this body of flesh into an
immortal state, that they could behold the things of God.

3 Nephi 28:16
 16 But it came to pass that they did again minister upon the
face of the earth; nevertheless they did not minister of the
things which they had heard and seen, because of the commandment
which was given them in heaven.

3 Nephi 28:17
 17 And now, whether they were mortal or immortal, from the day
of their transfiguration, I know not;

3 Nephi 28:18
 18 But this much I know, according to the record which hath been
given--they did go forth upon the face of the land, and did
minister unto all the people, uniting as many to the church as
would believe in their preaching; baptizing them, and as many as
were baptized did receive the Holy Ghost.

3 Nephi 28:19
 19 And they were cast into prison by them who did not belong to
the church. And the prisons could not hold them, for they were
rent in twain.

3 Nephi 28:20
 20 And they were cast down into the earth; but they did smite
the earth with the word of God, insomuch that by his power they
were delivered out of the depths of the earth; and therefore they
could not dig pits sufficient to hold them.

3 Nephi 28:21
 21 And thrice they were cast into a furnace and received no
hard.

3 Nephi 28:22
 22 And twice were they cast into a den of wild beasts; and
behold they did play with the beasts as a child with a suckling
lamb, and received no harm.

3 Nephi 28:23
 23 And it came to pass that thus they did go forth among all the
people of Nephi, and did preach the gospel of Christ unto all
people upon the face of the land; and they were converted unto
the Lord, and were united unto the church of Christ, and thus the
people of that generation were blessed, according to the word of
Jesus.

3 Nephi 28:24
 24 And now I, Mormon, make an end of speaking concerning these
things for a time.

3 Nephi 28:25
 25 Behold, I was about to write the names of those who were
never to taste of death, but the Lord forbade; therefore I write
them not, for they are hid from the world.

3 Nephi 28:26
 26 But behold, I have seen them, and they have ministered unto
me.

3 Nephi 28:27
 27 And behold they will be among the Gentiles, and the Gentiles
shall know them not.

3 Nephi 28:28
 28 They will also be among the Jews, and the Jews shall know
them not.

3 Nephi 28:29
 29 And it shall come to pass, when the Lord seeth fit in his
wisdom that they shall minister unto all the scattered tribes of
Israel, and unto all nations, kindreds, tongues and people, and
shall bring out of them unto Jesus many souls, that their desire
may be fulfilled, and also because of the convincing power of God
which is in them.

3 Nephi 28:30
 30 And they are as the angels of God, and if they shall pray
unto the Father in the name of Jesus they can show themselves
unto whatsoever man it seemeth them good.

3 Nephi 28:31
 31 Therefore, great and marvelous works shall be wrought by
them, before the great and coming day when all people must surely
stand before the judgment-seat of Christ;

3 Nephi 28:32
 32 Yea even among the Gentiles shall there be a great and
marvelous work wrought by them, before that judgment day.

3 Nephi 28:33
 33 And if ye had all the scriptures which give an account of all
the marvelous works of Christ, ye would, according to the words
of Christ, know that these things must surely come.

3 Nephi 28:34
 34 And wo be unto him that will not hearken unto the words of
Jesus, and also to them whom he hath chosen and sent among them;
for whoso receiveth not the words of Jesus and the words of those
whom he hath sent receiveth not him; and therefore he will not
receive them at the last day;

3 Nephi 28:35
 35 And it would be better for them if they had not been born.
For do ye suppose that ye can get rid of the justice of an
offended God, who hath been trampled under feet of men, that
thereby salvation might come?

3 Nephi 28:36
 36 And now behold, as I spake concerning those whom the Lord
hath chosen, yea, even three who were caught up into the heavens,
that I knew not whether they were cleansed from mortality to
immortality--

3 Nephi 28:37
 37 But behold, since I wrote, I have inquired of the Lord, and
he hath made it manifest unto me that there must needs be a
change wrought upon their bodies, or else it needs be that they
must taste of death;

3 Nephi 28:38
 38 Therefore, that they might not taste of death there was a
change wrought upon their bodies, that they might not suffer pain
nor sorrow save it were for the sins of the world.

3 Nephi 28:39
 39 Now this change was not equal to that which shall take place
at the last day; but there was a change wrought upon them,
insomuch that Satan could have no power over them, that he could
not tempt them; and they were sanctified in the flesh, that they
were holy, and that the powers of the earth could not hold them.
3 Nephi 28:40
 40 And in this state they were to remain until the judgment day
of Christ; and at that day they were to receive a greater change,
and to be received into the kingdom of the Father to go no more
out, but to dwell eternally in the heavens.



3 Nephi 29
Chapter 29

3 Nephi 29:1
 1 And now behold, I say unto you that when the Lord shall see
fit, in his wisdom, that these sayings shall come unto the
Gentiles according to his word, then ye may know that the
covenant which the Father hath made with the children of Israel,
concerning their restoration to the lands of their inheritance,
is already beginning to be fulfilled.

3 Nephi 29:2
 2 And ye may know that the words of the Lord, which have been
spoken by the holy prophets, shall all be fulfilled; and ye need
not say that the Lord delays his coming unto the children of
Israel.

3 Nephi 29:3
 3 And ye need not imagine in your hearts that the words which
have been spoken are vain, for behold, the Lord will remember his
covenant which he hath made unto his people of the house of
Israel.

3 Nephi 29:4
 4 And when ye shall see these sayings coming forth among you,
then ye need not any longer spurn at the doings of the Lord, for
the sword of his justice is in his right hand; and behold, at
that day, if ye shall spurn at his doings he will cause that it
shall soon overtake you.

3 Nephi 29:5
 5 Wo unto him that spurneth at the doings of the Lord; yea, wo
unto him that shall deny the Christ and his works!

3 Nephi 29:6
 6 Yea, wo unto him that shall deny the revelations of the Lord,
and that shall say the Lord no longer worketh by revelation, or
by prophecy, or by gifts, or by tongues, or by healings, or by
the power of the Holy Ghost!

3 Nephi 29:7
 7 Yea, and wo unto him that shall say at that day, to get gain,
that there can be no miracle wrought by Jesus Christ; for he that
doeth this shall become like unto the son of perdition, for whom
there was no mercy, according to the word of Christ!

3 Nephi 29:8
 8 Yea, and ye need not any longer hiss, nor spurn, nor make game
of the Jews, nor any of the remnant of the house of Israel; for
behold, the Lord remembereth his covenant unto them, and he will
do unto them according to that which he hath sworn.

3 Nephi 29:9
 9 Therefore ye need not suppose that ye can turn the right hand
of the Lord unto the left, that he may not execute judgment unto
the fulfilling of the covenant which he hath made unto the house
of Israel.

3 Nephi 30
Chapter 30

3 Nephi 30:1
 1 Hearken, O ye Gentiles, and hear the words of Jesus Christ,
the Son of the living God, which he hath commanded me that I
should speak concerning you, for, behold he commandeth me that I
should write, saying:














