
Alma
THE BOOK OF ALMA
THE SON OF ALMA
The account of Alma, who was the son of Alma the first, and chief
judge over the people of Nephi, and also the high priest over the
Church.   An account of the reign of the judges, and the wars and
contentions among the people.   And also an account of a war
between the Nephites and the Lamanites, according to the record
of Alma, the first and chief judge.

Alma 1
Chapter 1

Alma 1:1
 1 Now it came to pass that in the first year of the reign of the
judges over the people of Nephi, from this time forward, king
Mosiah having gone the way of all the earth, having warred a good
warfare, walking uprightly before God, leaving none to reign in
his stead; nevertheless he had established laws, and they were
acknowledged by the people; therefore they were obliged to abide
by the laws which he had made.

Alma 1:2
 2 And it came to pass that in the first year of the reign of
Alma in the judgment-seat, there was a man brought before him to
be judged, a man who was large, and was noted for his much
strength.

Alma 1:3
 3 And he had gone about among the people, preaching to them that
which he termed to be the word of God, bearing down against the
church; declaring unto the people that every priest and teacher
ought to become popular; and they ought not to labor with their
hands, but that they ought to be supported by the people.

Alma 1:4
 4 And he also testified unto the people that all mankind should
be saved at the last day, and that they need not fear nor
tremble, but that they might lift up their heads and rejoice; for
the Lord had created all men, and had also redeemed all men; and,
in the end, all men should have eternal life.

Alma 1:5
 5 And it came to pass that he did teach these things so much
that many did believe on his words, even so many that they began
to support him and give him money.

Alma 1:6
 6 And he began to be lifted up in the pride of his heart, and to
wear very costly apparel, yea, and even began to establish a
church after the manner of his preaching.

Alma 1:7
 7 And it came to pass as he was going, to preach to those who
believed on his word, he met a man who belonged to the church of
God, yea, even one of their teachers; and he began to contend
with him sharply, that he might lead away the people of the
church; but the man withstood him, admonishing him with the words
of God.

Alma 1:8
 8 Now the name of the man was Gideon; and it was he who was an
instrument in the hands of God in delivering the people of Limhi
out of bondage.

Alma 1:9
 9 Now, because Gideon withstood him with the words of God he was
wroth with Gideon, and drew his sword and began to smite him. 
Now Gideon being stricken with many years, therefore he was not
able to withstand his blows, therefore he was slain by the sword.

Alma 1:10
 10 And the man who slew him was taken by the people of the
church, and was brought before Alma, to be judged according to
the crimes which he had committed.

Alma 1:11
 11 And it came to pass that he stood before Alma and pleaded for
himself with much boldness.

Alma 1:12
 12 But Alma said unto him:





Alma 1:15
 15 And it came to pass that they took him; and his name was
Nehor; and they carried him upon the top of the hill Manti, and
there he was caused, or rather did acknowledge, between the
heavens and the earth, that what he had taught to the people was
contrary to the word of God; and there he suffered an ignominious
death.

Alma 1:16
 16 Nevertheless, this did not put an end to the spreading of
priestcraft through the land; for there were many who loved the
vain things of the world, and they went forth preaching false
doctrines; and this they did for the sake of riches and honor.

Alma 1:17
 17 Nevertheless, they durst not lie, if it were known, for fear
of the law, for liars were punished; therefore they pretended to
preach according to their belief; and now the law could have no
power on any man for his belief.

Alma 1:18
 18 And they durst not steal, for fear of the law, for such were
punished; neither durst they rob, nor murder, for he that
murdered was punished unto death.

Alma 1:19
 19 But it came to pass that whosoever did not belong to the
church of God began to persecute those that did belong to the
church of God, and had taken upon them the name of Christ.

Alma 1:20
 20 Yea, they did persecute them, and afflict them with all
manner of words, and this because of their humility; because they
were not proud in their own eyes, and because they did impart the
word of God, one with another, without money and without price.

Alma 1:21
 21 Now there was a strict law among the people of the church
that there should not any man, belonging to the church, arise and
persecute those that did not belong to the church, and that there
should be no persecution among themselves.

Alma 1:22
 22 Nevertheless, there were many among them who began to be
proud, and began to contend warmly with their adversaries, even
unto blows; yea, they would smite one another with their fists.

Alma 1:23
 23 Now this was in the second year of the reign of Alma, and it
was a cause of much affliction to the church; yea, it was the
cause of much trial with the church.

Alma 1:24
 24 For the hearts of many were hardened, and their names were
blotted out, that they were remembered no more among the people
of God.  And also many withdrew themselves from among them.

Alma 1:25
 25 Now this was a great trial to those that did stand fast in
the faith; nevertheless, they were steadfast and immovable in
keeping the commandments of God, and they bore with patience the
persecution which was heaped upon them.

Alma 1:26
 26 And when the priests left their labor to impart the word of
God unto the people, the people also left their labors to hear
the word of God.  And when the priest had imparted unto them the
word of God they all returned again diligently unto their labors;
and the priest, not esteeming himself above his hearers, for the
preacher was no better than the hearer, neither was the teacher
any better than the learner; and thus they were all equal, and
they did all labor, every man according to his strength.

Alma 1:27
 27 And they did impart of their substance, every man according
to that which he had, to the poor, and the needy, and the sick,
and the afflicted; and they did not wear costly apparel, yet they
were neat and comely.

Alma 1:28
 28 And thus they did establish the affairs of the church; and
thus they began to have continual peace again, notwithstanding
all their persecutions.

Alma 1:29
 29 And now, because of the steadiness of the church they began
to be exceedingly rich, having abundance of all things whatsoever
they stood in need--an abundance of flocks and herds, and
fatlings of every kind, and also abundance of grain, and of gold,
and of silver, and of precious things, and abundance of silk and
fine-twined linen, and all manner of good homely cloth.

Alma 1:30
 30 And thus, in their prosperous circumstances, they did not
send away any who were naked, or that were hungry, or that were
athirst, or that were sick, or that had not been nourished; and
they did not set their hearts upon riches; therefore they were
liberal to all, both old and young, both bond and free, both male
and female, whether out of the church or in the church, having no
respect to persons as to those who stood in need.

Alma 1:31
 31 And thus they did prosper and become far more wealthy than
those who did not belong to their church.

Alma 1:32
 32 For those who did not belong to their church did indulge
themselves in sorceries, and in idolatry or idleness, and in
babblings, and in envyings and strife; wearing costly apparel;
being lifted up in the pride of their own eyes; persecuting,
lying, thieving, robbing, committing whoredoms, and murdering,
and all manner of wickedness; nevertheless, the law was put in
force upon all those who did transgress it, inasmuch as it was
possible.

Alma 1:33
 33 And it came to pass that by thus exercising the law upon
them, every man suffering according to that which he had done,
they became more still, and durst not commit any wickedness if it
were known; therefore, there was much peace among the people of
Nephi until the fifth year of the reign of the judges.

Alma 2
Chapter 2

Alma 2:1
 1 And it came to pass in the commencement of the fifth year of
their reign there began to be a contention among the people; for
a certain man, being called Amlici, he being a very cunning man,
yea, a wise man as to the wisdom of the world, he being after the
order of the man that slew Gideon by the sword, who was executed
according to the law--

Alma 2:2
 2 Now this Amlici had, by his cunning, drawn away much people
after him; even so much that they began to be very powerful; and
they began to endeavor to establish Amlici to be king over the
people.

Alma 2:3
 3 Now this was alarming to the people of the church, and also to
all those who had not been drawn away after the persuasions of
Amlici; for they knew that according to their law that such
things must be established by the voice of the people.

Alma 2:4
 4 Therefore, if it were possible that Amlici should gain the
voice of the people, he, being a wicked man, would deprive them
of their rights and privileges of the church; for it was his
intent to destroy the church of God.

Alma 2:5
 5 And it came to pass that the people assembled themselves
together throughout all the land, every man according to his
mind, whether it were for or against Amlici, in separate bodies,
having much dispute and wonderful contentions one with another.

Alma 2:6
 6 And thus they did assemble themselves together to cast in
their voices concerning the matter; and they were laid before the
judges.

Alma 2:7
 7 And it came to pass that the voice of the people came against
Amlici, that he was not made king over the people.

Alma 2:8
 8 Now this did cause much joy in the hearts of those who were
against him; but Amlici did stir up those who were in his favor
to anger against those who were not in his favor.

Alma 2:9
 9 And it came to pass that they gathered themselves together,
and did consecrate Amlici to be their king.

Alma 2:10
 10 Now when Amlici was made king over them he commanded them
that they should take up arms against their brethren; and this he
did that he might subject them to him.

Alma 2:11
 11 Now the people of Amlici were distinguished by the name of
Amlici, being called Amlicites; and the remainder were called
Nephites, or the people of God.

Alma 2:12
 12 Therefore the people of the Nephites were aware of the intent
of the Amlicites, and therefore they did prepare to meet them;
yea, they did arm themselves with swords, and with cimeters, and
with bows, and with arrows, and with stones, and with slings, and
with all manner of weapons of war, of every kind.

Alma 2:13
 13 And thus they were prepared to meet the Amlicites at the time
of their coming.  And there were appointed captains, and higher
captains, and chief captains, according to their numbers.

Alma 2:14
 14 And it came to pass that Amlici did arm his men with all
manner of weapons of war of every kind; and he also appointed
rulers and leaders over his people, to lead them to war against
their brethren.

Alma 2:15
 15 And it came to pass that the Amlicites came upon the hill
Amnihu, which was east of the river Sidon, which ran by the land
of Zarahemla, and there they began to make war with the Nephites.

Alma 2:16
 16 Now Alma, being the chief judge and the governor of the
people of Nephi, therefore he went up with his people, yea, with
his captains, and chief captains, yea, at the head of his armies,
against the Amlicites to battle.

Alma 2:17
 17 And they began to slay the Amlicites upon the hill east of
Sidon.  And the Amlicites did contend with the Nephites with
great strength, insomuch that many of the Nephites did fall
before the Amlicites.

Alma 2:18
 18 Nevertheless the Lord did strengthen the hand of the
Nephites, that they slew the Amlicites with great slaughter, that
they began to flee before them.

Alma 2:19
 19 And it came to pass that the Nephites did pursue the
Amlicites all that day, and did slay them with much slaughter,
insomuch that there were slain of the Amlicites twelve thousand
five hundred thirty and two souls; and there were slain of the
Nephites six thousand five hundred sixty and two souls.

Alma 2:20
 20 And it came to pass that when Alma could pursue the Amlicites
no longer he caused that his people should pitch their tents in
the valley of Gideon, the valley being called after that Gideon
who was slain by the hand of Nehor with the sword; and in this
valley the Nephites did pitch their tents for the night.

Alma 2:21
 21 And Alma sent spies to follow the remnant of the Amlicites,
that he might know of their plans and their plots, whereby he
might guard himself against them, that he might preserve his
people from being destroyed.

Alma 2:22
 22 Now those whom he had sent out to watch the camp of the
Amlicites were called Zeram, and Amnor, and Manti, and Limher;
these were they who went out with their men to watch the camp of
the Amlicites.

Alma 2:23
 23 And it came to pass that on the morrow they returned into the
camp of the Nephites in great haste, being greatly astonished,
and struck with much fear, saying:

Alma 2:24
 24 Behold, we followed the camp of the Amlicites, and to our
great astonishment, in the land of Minon, above the land of
Zarahemla, in the course of the land of Nephi, we saw a numerous
host of the Lamanites; and behold, the Amlicites have joined
them;

Alma 2:25
 25 And they are upon our brethren in that land; and they are
fleeing before them with their flocks, and their wives, and their
children, towards our city; and except we make haste they obtain
possession of our city, and our fathers, and our wives, and our
children be slain.

Alma 2:26
 26 And it came to pass that the people of Nephi took their
tents, and departed out of the valley of Gideon towards their
city, which was the city of Zarahemla.

Alma 2:27
 27 And behold, as they were crossing the river Sidon, the
Lamanites and the Amlicites, being as numerous almost, as it
were, as the sands of the sea, came upon them to destroy them.

Alma 2:28
 28 Nevertheless, the Nephites being strengthened by the hand of
the Lord, having prayed mightily to him that he would deliver
them out of the hands of their enemies, therefore the Lord did
hear their cries, and did strengthen them, and the Lamanites and
the Amlicites did fall before them.

Alma 2:29
 29 And it came to pass that Alma fought with Amlici with the
sword, face to face; and they did contend mightily, one with
another.

Alma 2:30
 30 And it came to pass that Alma, being a man of God, being
exercised with much faith, cried, saying:





Alma 2:31
 31 Now when Alma had said these words he contended again with
Amlici; and he was strengthened, insomuch that he slew Amlici
with the sword.

Alma 2:32
 32 And he also contended with the king of the Lamanites; but the
king of the Lamanites fled back from before Alma and sent his
guards to contend with Alma.

Alma 2:33
 33 But Alma, with his guards, contended with the guards of the
king of the Lamanites until he slew and drove them back.

Alma 2:34
 34 And thus he cleared the ground, or rather the bank, which was
on the west of the river Sidon, throwing the bodies of the
Lamanites who had been slain into the waters of Sidon, that
thereby his people might have room to cross and contend with the
Lamanites and the Amlicites on the west side of the river Sidon.

Alma 2:35
 35 And it came to pass that when they had all crossed the river
Sidon that the Lamanites and the Amlicites began to flee before
them, notwithstanding they were so numerous that they could not
be numbered.

Alma 2:36
 36 And they fled before the Nephites towards the wilderness
which was west and north, away beyond the borders of the land;
and the Nephites did pursue them with their might, and did slay
them.

Alma 2:37
 37 Yea, they were met on every hand, and slain and driven, until
they were scattered on the west, and on the north, until they had
reached the wilderness, which was called Hermounts; and it was
that part of the wilderness which was infested by wild and
ravenous beasts.

Alma 2:38
 38 And it came to pass that many died in the wilderness of their
wounds, and were devoured by those beasts and also the vultures
of the air; and their bones have been found, and have been heaped
up on the earth.

Alma 3
Chapter 3

Alma 3:1
 1 And it came to pass that the Nephites who were not slain by
the weapons of war, after having buried those who had been
slain--now the number of the slain were not numbered, because of
the greatness of their number--after they had finished burying
their dead they all returned to their lands, and to their houses,
and their wives, and their children.

Alma 3:2
 2 Now many women and children had been slain with the sword, and
also many of their flocks and their herds; and also many of their
fields of grain were destroyed, for they were trodden down by the
hosts of men.

Alma 3:3
 3 And now as many of the Lamanites and the Amlicites who had
been slain upon the bank of the river Sidon were cast into the
waters of Sidon; and behold their bones are in the depths of the
sea, and they are many.

Alma 3:4
 4 And the Amlicites were distinguished from the Nephites, for
they had marked themselves with red in their foreheads after the
manner of the Lamanites; nevertheless they had not shorn their
heads like unto the Lamanites.

Alma 3:5
 5 Now the heads of the Lamanites were shorn; and they were
naked, save it were skin which was girded about their loins, and
also their armor, which was girded about them, and their bows,
and their arrows, and their stones, and their slings, and so
forth.

Alma 3:6
 6 And the skins of the Lamanites were dark, according to the
mark which was set upon their fathers, which was a curse upon
them because of their transgression and their rebellion against
their brethren, who consisted of Nephi, Jacob, and Joseph, and
Sam, who were just and holy men.

Alma 3:7
 7 And their brethren sought to destroy them, therefore they were
cursed; and the Lord God set a mark upon them, yea, upon Laman
and Lemuel, and also the sons of Ishmael, and Ishmaelitish women.

Alma 3:8
 8 And this was done that their seed might be distinguished from
the seed of their brethren, that thereby the Lord God might
preserve his people, that they might not mix and believe in
incorrect traditions which would prove their destruction.

Alma 3:9
 9 And it came to pass that whosoever did mingle his seed with
that of the Lamanites did bring the same curse upon his seed.

Alma 3:10
 10 Therefore, whosoever suffered himself to be led away by the
Lamanites was called under that head, and there was a mark set
upon him.

Alma 3:11
 11 And it came to pass that whosoever would not believe in the
tradition of the Lamanites, but believed those records which were
brought out of the land of Jerusalem, and also in the tradition
of their fathers, which were correct, who believed in the
commandments of God and kept them, were called the Nephites, or
the people of Nephi, from that time forth--

Alma 3:12
 12 And it is they who have kept the records which are true of
their people, and also of the people of the Lamanites.

Alma 3:13
 13 Now we will return again to the Amlicites, for they also had
a mark set upon them; yea, they set the mark upon themselves,
yea, even a mark of red upon their foreheads.

Alma 3:14
 14 Thus the word of God is fulfilled, for these are the words
which he said to Nephi:





Alma 3:18
 18 Now the Amlicites knew not that they were fulfilling the
words of God when they began to mark themselves in their
foreheads; nevertheless they had come out in open rebellion
against God; therefore it was expedient that the curse should
fall upon them.

Alma 3:19
 19 Now I would that ye should see that they brought upon
themselves the curse; and even so doth every man that is cursed
bring upon himself his own condemnation.

Alma 3:20
 20 Now it came to pass that not many days after the battle which
was fought in the land of Zarahemla, by the Lamanites and the
Amlicites, that there was another army of the Lamanites came in
upon the people of Nephi, in the same place where the first army
met the Amlicites.

Alma 3:21
 21 And it came to pass that there was an army sent to drive them
out of their land.

Alma 3:22
 22 Now Alma himself being afflicted with a wound did not go up
to battle at this time against the Lamanites;

Alma 3:23
 23 But he sent up a numerous army against them; and they went up
and slew many of the Lamanites, and drove the remainder of them
out of the borders of their land.

Alma 3:24
 24 And then they returned again and began to establish peace in
the land, being troubled no more for a time with their enemies.

Alma 3:25
 25 Now all these things were done, yea, all these wars and
contentions were commenced and ended in the fifth year of the
reign of the judges.

Alma 3:26
 26 And in one year were thousands and tens of thousands of souls
sent to the eternal world, that they might reap their rewards
according to their works, whether they were good or whether they
were bad, to reap eternal happiness or eternal misery, according
to the spirit which they listed to obey, whether it be a good
spirit or a bad one.

Alma 3:27
 27 For every man receiveth wages of him whom he listeth to obey,
and this according to the words of the spirit of prophecy;
therefore let it be according to the truth.  And thus endeth the
fifth year of the reign of the judges.

Alma 4
Chapter 4

Alma 4:1
 1 Now it came to pass in the sixth year of the reign of the
judges over the people of Nephi, there were no contentions nor
wars in the land of Zarahemla;

Alma 4:2
 2 But the people were afflicted, yea, greatly afflicted for the
loss of their brethren, and also for the loss of their flocks and
herds, and also for the loss of their fields of grain, which were
trodden under foot and destroyed by the Lamanites.

Alma 4:3
 3 And so great were their afflictions that every soul had cause
to mourn; and they believed that it was the judgments of God sent
upon them because of their wickedness and their abominations;
therefore they were awakened to a remembrance of their duty.

Alma 4:4
 4 And they began to establish the church more fully; yea, and
many were baptized in the waters of Sidon and were joined to the
church of God; yea, they were baptized by the hand of Alma, who
had been consecrated the high priest over the people of the
church, by the hand of his father Alma.

Alma 4:5
 5 And it came to pass in the seventh year of the reign of the
judges there were about three thousand five hundred souls that
united themselves to the church of God and were baptized.  And
thus endeth the seventh year of the reign of the judges over the
people of Nephi; and there was continual peace in all that time.

Alma 4:6
 6 And it came to pass in the eighth year of the reign of the
judges, that the people of the church began to wax proud, because
of their exceeding riches, and their fine silks, and their
fine-twined linen, and because of their many flocks and herds,
and their gold and their silver, and all manner of precious
things, which they had obtained by their industry; and in all
these things were they lifted up in the pride of their eyes, for
they began to wear very costly apparel.

Alma 4:7
 7 Now this was the cause of much affliction to Alma, yea, and to
many of the people whom Alma had consecrated to be teachers, and
priests, and elders over the church; yea, many of them were
sorely grieved for the wickedness which they saw had begun to be
among their people.

Alma 4:8
 8 For they saw and beheld with great sorrow that the people of
the church began to be lifted up in the pride of their eyes, and
to set their hearts upon riches and upon the vain things of the
world, that they began to be scornful, one towards another, and
they began to persecute those that did not believe according to
their own will and pleasure.

Alma 4:9
 9 And thus, in this eighth year of the reign of the judges,
there began to be great contentions among the people of the
church; yea, there were envyings, and strife, and malice, and
persecutions, and pride, even to exceed the pride of those who
did not belong to the church of God.

Alma 4:10
 10 And thus ended the eighth year of the reign of the judges;
and the wickedness of the church was a great stumbling-block to
those who did not belong to the church; and thus the church began
to fail in its progress.

Alma 4:11
 11 And it came to pass in the commencement of the ninth year,
Alma saw the wickedness of the church, and he saw also that the
example of the church began to lead those who were unbelievers on
from one piece of iniquity to another, thus bringing on the
destruction of the people.

Alma 4:12
 12 Yea, he saw great inequality among the people, some lifting
themselves up with their pride, despising others, turning their
backs upon the needy and the naked and those who were hungry, and
those who were athirst, and those who were sick and afflicted.

Alma 4:13
 13 Now this was a great cause for lamentations among the people,
while others were abasing themselves, succoring those who stood
in need of their succor, such as imparting their substance to the
poor and the needy, feeding the hungry, and suffering all manner
of afflictions, for Christ's sake, who should come according to
the spirit of prophecy;

Alma 4:14
 14 Looking forward to that day, thus retaining a remission of
their sins; being filled with great joy because of the
resurrection of the dead, according to the will and power and
deliverance of Jesus Christ from the bands of death.

Alma 4:15
 15 And now it came to pass that Alma, having seen the
afflictions of the humble followers of God, and the persecutions
which were heaped upon them by the remainder of his people, and
seeing all their inequality, began to be very sorrowful;
nevertheless the Spirit of the Lord did not fail him.

Alma 4:16
 16 And he selected a wise man who was among the elders of the
church, and gave him power according to the voice of the people,
that he might have power to enact laws according to the laws
which had been given, and to put them in force according to the
wickedness and the crimes of the people.

Alma 4:17
 17 Now this man's name was Nephihah, and he was appointed chief
judge; and he sat in the judgment-seat to judge and to govern the
people.

Alma 4:18
 18 Now Alma did not grant unto him the office of being high
priest over the church, but he retained the office of high priest
unto himself; but he delivered the judgment-seat unto Nephihah.

Alma 4:19
 19 And this he did that he himself might go forth among his
people, or among the people of Nephi, that he might preach the
word of God unto them, to stir them up in remembrance of their
duty, and that he might pull down, by the word of God, all the
pride and craftiness and all the contentions which were among his
people, seeing no way that he might reclaim them save it were in
bearing down in pure testimony against them.

Alma 4:20
 20 And thus in the commencement of the ninth year of the reign
of the judges over the people of Nephi, Alma delivered up the
judgment-seat to Nephihah, and confined himself wholly to the
high priesthood of the holy order of God, to the testimony of the
word, according to the spirit of revelation and prophecy.

Alma 5
Chapter 5

Alma 5:1
 1 Now it came to pass that Alma began to deliver the word of God
unto the people, first in the land of Zarahemla, and from thence
throughout all the land.

Alma 5:2
 2 And these are the words which he spake to the people in the
church which was established in the city of Zarahemla, according
to his own record, saying:






Alma 6
Chapter 6

Alma 6:1
 1 And now it came to pass that after Alma had made an end of
speaking unto the people of the church, which was established in
the city of Zarahemla, he ordained priests and elders, by laying
on his hands according to the order of God, to preside and watch
over the church.

Alma 6:2
 2 And it came to pass that whosoever did not belong to the
church who repented of their sins were baptized unto repentance,
and were received into the church.

Alma 6:3
 3 And it also came to pass that whosoever did belong to the
church that did not repent of their wickedness and humble
themselves before God--I mean those who were lifted up in the
pride of their hearts--the same were rejected, and their names
were blotted out, that their names were not numbered among those
of the righteous.

Alma 6:4
 4 And thus they began to establish the order of the church in
the city of Zarahemla.

Alma 6:5
 5 Now I would that ye should understand that the word of God was
liberal unto all, that none were deprived of the privilege of
assembling themselves together to hear the word of God.

Alma 6:6
 6 Nevertheless the children of God were commanded that they
should gather themselves together oft, and join in fasting and
mighty prayer in behalf of the welfare of the souls of those who
knew not God.

Alma 6:7
 7 And now it came to pass that when Alma had made these
regulations he departed from them, yea, from the church which was
in the city of Zarahemla, and went over upon the east of the
river Sidon, into the valley of Gideon, there having been a city
built, which was called the city of Gideon, which was in the
valley that was called Gideon, being called after the man who was
slain by the hand of Nehor with the sword.

Alma 6:8
 8 And Alma went and began to declare the word of God unto the
church which was established in the valley of Gideon, according
to the revelation of the truth of the word which had been spoken
by his fathers, and according to the spirit of prophecy which was
in him, according to the testimony of Jesus Christ, the Son of
God, who should come to redeem his people from their sins, and
the holy order by which he was called.  And thus it is written. 
Amen.





Alma 8
Chapter 8

Alma 8:1
 1 And now it came to pass that Alma returned from the land of
Gideon, after having taught the people of Gideon many things
which cannot be written, having established the order of the
church, according as he had before done in the land of Zarahemla,
yea, he returned to his own house at Zarahemla to rest himself
from the labors which he had performed.

Alma 8:2
 2 And thus ended the ninth year of the reign of the judges over
the people of Nephi.

Alma 8:3
 3 And it came to pass in the commencement of the tenth year of
the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, that Alma
departed from thence and took his journey over into the land of
Melek, on the west of the river Sidon, on the west by the borders
of the wilderness.

Alma 8:4
 4 And he began to teach the people in the land of Melek
according to the holy order of God, by which he had been called;
and he began to teach the people throughout all the land of
Melek.

Alma 8:5
 5 And it came to pass that the people came to him throughout all
the borders of the land which was by the wilderness side.  And
they were baptized throughout all the land;

Alma 8:6
 6 So that when he had finished his work at Melek he departed
thence, and traveled three days' journey on the north of the land
of Melek; and he came to a city which was called Ammonihah.

Alma 8:7
 7 Now it was the custom of the people of Nephi to call their
lands, and their cities, and their villages, yea, even all their
small villages, after the name of him who first possessed them;
and thus it was with the land of Ammonihah.

Alma 8:8
 8 And it came to pass that when Alma had come to the city of
Ammonihah he began to preach the word of God unto them.

Alma 8:9
 9 Now Satan had gotten great hold upon the hearts of the people
of the city of Ammonihah; therefore they would not hearken unto
the words of Alma.

Alma 8:10
 10 Nevertheless Alma labored much in the spirit, wrestling with
God in mighty prayer, that he would pour out his Spirit upon the
people who were in the city; that he would also grant that he
might baptize them unto repentance.

Alma 8:11
 11 Nevertheless, they hardened their hearts, saying unto him:
Behold, we know that thou art Alma; and we know that thou art
high priest over the church which thou hast established in many
parts of the land, according to your tradition; and we are not of
thy church, and we do not believe in such foolish traditions.

Alma 8:12
 12 And now we know that because we are not of thy church we know
that thou hast no power over us; and thou hast delivered up the
judgment-seat unto Nephihah; therefore thou art not the chief
judge over us.

Alma 8:13
 13 Now when the people had said this, and withstood all his
words, and reviled him, and spit upon him, and caused that he
should be cast out of their city, he departed thence and took his
journey towards the city which was called Aaron.

Alma 8:14
 14 And it came to pass that while he was journeying thither,
being weighed down with sorrow, wading through much tribulation
and anguish of soul, because of the wickedness of the people who
were in the city of Ammonihah, it came to pass while Alma was
thus weighed down with sorrow, behold an angel of the Lord
appeared unto him, saying:




Alma 8:18
 18 Now it came to pass that after Alma had received his message
from the angel of the Lord he returned speedily to the land of
Ammonihah.  And he entered the city by another way, yea, by the
way which is on the south of the city of Ammonihah.

Alma 8:19
 19 And as he entered the city he was an hungered, and he said to
a man: 





Alma 8:21
 21 And it came to pass that the man received him into his house;
and the man was called Amulek; and he brought forth bread and
meat and set before Alma.

Alma 8:22
 22 And it came to pass that Alma ate bread and was filled; and
he blessed Amulek and his house, and he gave thanks unto God.

Alma 8:23
 23 And after he had eaten and was filled he said unto Amulek:





Alma 8:27
 27 And Alma tarried many days with Amulek before he began to
preach unto the people.

Alma 8:28
 28 And it came to pass that the people did wax more gross in
their iniquities.

Alma 8:29
 29 And the word came to Alma, saying: Go; and also say unto my
servant Amulek, go forth and prophesy unto this people,
saying--Repent ye, for thus saith the Lord, except ye repent I
will visit this people in mine anger; yea, and I will not turn my
fierce anger away.

Alma 8:30
 30 And Alma went forth, and also Amulek, among the people, to
declare the words of God unto them; and they were filled with the
Holy Ghost.

Alma 8:31
 31 And they had power given unto them, insomuch that they could
not be confined in dungeons; neither was it possible that any man
could slay them; nevertheless they did not exercise their power
until they were bound in bands and cast into prison.  Now, this
was done that the Lord might show forth his power in them.

Alma 8:32
 32 And it came to pass that they went forth and began to preach
and to prophesy unto the people, according to the spirit and
power which the Lord had given them.






Alma 9:34
 34 And it came to pass that Amulek went and stood forth, and
began to preach unto them also.  And now the words of Amulek are
not all written, nevertheless a part of his words are written in
this book.

Alma 10
Chapter 10

Alma 10:1
 1 Now these are the words which Amulek preached unto the people
who were in the land of Ammonihah, saying:





Alma 10:28
 28 And now it came to pass that when Amulek had spoken these
words the people cried out against him, saying: Now we know that
this man is a child of the devil, for he hath lied unto us; for
he hath spoken against our law.  And now he says that he has not
spoken against it.

Alma 10:29
 29 And again, he has reviled against our lawyers, and our
judges.

Alma 10:30
 30 And it came to pass that the lawyers put it into their hearts
that they should remember these things against him.

Alma 10:31
 31 And there was one among them whose name was Zeezrom.  Now he
was the foremost to accuse Amulek and Alma, he being one of the
most expert among them, having much business to do among the
people.

Alma 10:32
 32 Now the object of these lawyers was to get gain; and they got
gain according to their employ.

Alma 11
Chapter 11

Alma 11:1
 1 Now it was in the law of Mosiah that every man who was a judge
of the law, or those who were appointed to be judges, should
receive wages according to the time which they labored to judge
those who were brought before them to be judged.

Alma 11:2
 2 Now if a man owed another, and he would not pay that which he
did owe, he was complained of to the judge; and the judge
executed authority, and sent forth officers that the man should
be brought before him; and he judged the man according to the law
and the evidences which were brought against him, and thus the
man was compelled to pay that which he owed, or be stripped, or
be cast out from among the people as a thief and a robber.

Alma 11:3
 3 And the judge received for his wages according to his time--a
senine of gold for a day, or a senum of silver, which is equal to
a senine of gold; and this is according to the law which was
given.

Alma 11:4
 4 Now these are the names of the different pieces of their gold,
and of their silver, according to their value.  And the names are
given by the Nephites, for they did not reckon after the manner
of the Jews who were at Jerusalem; neither did they measure after
the manner of the Jews; but they altered their reckoning and
their measure, according to the minds and the circumstances of
the people, in every generation, until the reign of the judges,
they having been established by king Mosiah.

Alma 11:5
 5 Now the reckoning is thus--a senine of gold, a seon of gold, a
shum of gold, and a limnah of gold.

Alma 11:6
 6 A senum of silver, an amnor of silver, an ezrom of silver, and
an onti of silver.

Alma 11:7
 7 A senum of silver was equal to a senine of gold, and either
for a measure of barley, and also for a measure of every kind of
grain.

Alma 11:8
 8 Now the amount of a seon of gold was twice the value of a
senine.

Alma 11:9
 9 And a shum of gold was twice the value of a seon.

Alma 11:10
 10 And a limnah of gold was the value of them all.

Alma 11:11
 11 And an amnor of silver was as great as two senums.

Alma 11:12
 12 And an ezrom of silver was as great as four senums.

Alma 11:13
 13 And an onti was as great as them all.

Alma 11:14
 14 Now this is the value of the lesser numbers of their
reckoning--

Alma 11:15
 15 A shiblon is half of a senum; therefore, a shiblon for half a
measure of barley.

Alma 11:16
 16 And a shiblum is a half of a shiblon.

Alma 11:17
 17 And a leah is the half of a shiblum.

Alma 11:18
 18 Now this is their number, according to their reckoning.

Alma 11:19
 19 Now an antion of gold is equal to three shiblons.

Alma 11:20
 20 Now, it was for the sole purpose to get gain, because they
received their wages according to their employ, therefore, they
did stir up the people to riotings, and all manner of
disturbances and wickedness, that they might have more employ,
that they might get money according to the suits which were
brought before them; therefore they did stir up the people
against Alma and Amulek.

Alma 11:21
 21 And this Zeezrom began to question Amulek, saying:




Now Zeezrom was
a man who was expert in the devices of the devil, that he might
destroy that which was good; therefore, he said unto Amulek:





Alma 11:22
 22 And Amulek said unto him:






Alma 11:23
 23 Now Amulek said:





Alma 11:26
 26 And Zeezrom said unto him: 




Alma 11:26
 26 And Zeezrom said unto him:



Alma 11:27
 27 And Amulek said:


 
Alma 11:28
 28 Now Zeezrom said:


 
Alma 11:29
 29 And he answered, No.

Alma 11:30
 30 Now Zeezrom said unto him again:


 
Alma 11:31
 31 And he said:



Alma 11:32
 32 And Zeezrom said again:



Alma 11:33
 33 And he said unto him, Yea.

Alma 11:34
 34 And Zeezrom said again:



And Amulek answered and said unto him: 




Alma 11:35
 35 Now Zeezrom said unto the people: 




Alma 11:36
 36 Now Amulek saith again unto him:



Alma 11:38
 38 Now Zeezrom saith again unto him:



Alma 11:39
 39 And Amulek said unto him:

 
Alma 12
Chapter 12


Alma 11:46
 46 Now, when Amulek had finished these words the people began
again to be astonished, and also Zeezrom began to tremble.  And
thus ended the words of Amulek, or this is all that I have
written.

Alma 12:1
 1 Now Alma, seeing that the words of Amulek had silenced
Zeezrom, for he beheld that Amulek had caught him in his lying
and deceiving to destroy him, and seeing that he began to tremble
under a consciousness of his guilt, he opened his mouth and began
to speak unto him, and to establish the words of Amulek, and to
explain things beyond, or to unfold the scriptures beyond that
which Amulek had done.

Alma 12:2
 2 Now the words that Alma spake unto Zeezrom were heard by the
people round about; for the multitude was great, and he spake on
this wise:





Alma 12:7
 7 Now when Alma had spoken these words, Zeezrom began to tremble
more exceedingly, for he was convinced more and more of the power
of God; and he was also convinced that Alma and Amulek had a
knowledge of him, for he was convinced that they knew the
thoughts and intents of his heart; for power was given unto them
that they might know of these things according to the spirit of
prophecy.

Alma 12:8
 8 And Zeezrom began to inquire of them diligently, that he might
know more concerning the kingdom of God.  And he said unto Alma:



Alma 12:9
 9 And now Alma began to expound these things unto him, saying:



 
Alma 13:31
 31 And Alma spake many more words unto the people, which are not
written in this book.

Alma 14
Chapter 14

Alma 14:1
 1 And it came to pass after he had made an end of speaking unto
the people many of them did believe on his words, and began to
repent, and to search the scriptures.

Alma 14:2
 2 But the more part of them were desirous that they might
destroy Alma and Amulek; for they were angry with Alma, because
of the plainness of his words unto Zeezrom; and they also said
that Amulek had lied unto them, and had reviled against their law
and also against their lawyers and judges.

Alma 14:3
 3 And they were also angry with Alma and Amulek; and because
they had testified so plainly against their wickedness, they
sought to put them away privily.

Alma 14:4
 4 But it came to pass that they did not; but they took them and
bound them with strong cords, and took them before the chief
judge of the land.

Alma 14:5
 5 And the people went forth and witnessed against
them--testifying that they had reviled against the law, and their
lawyers and judges of the land, and also of all the people that
were in the land; and also testified that there was but one God,
and that he should send his Son among the people, but he should
not save them; and many such things did the people testify
against Alma and Amulek.  Now this was done before the chief
judge of the land.

Alma 14:6
 6 And it came to pass that Zeezrom was astonished at the words
which had been spoken; and he also knew concerning the blindness
of the minds, which he had caused among the people by his lying
words; and his soul began to be harrowed up under a consciousness
of his own guilt; yea, he began to be encircled about by the
pains of hell.

Alma 14:7
 7 And it came to pass that he began to cry unto the people,
saying: 


And he began to plead for them from that time forth; but
they reviled him, saying: Art thou also possessed with the devil?

And they spit upon him, and cast him out from among them, and
also all those who believed in the words which had been spoken by
Alma and Amulek; and they cast them out, and sent men to cast
stones at them.

Alma 14:8
 8 And they brought their wives and children together, and
whosoever believed or had been taught to believe in the word of
God they caused that they should be cast into the fire, and they
also brought forth their records which contained the holy
scriptures, and cast them into the fire also, that they might be
burned and destroyed by fire.

Alma 14:9
 9 And it came to pass that they took Alma and Amulek, and
carried them forth to the place of martyrdom, that they might
witness the destruction of those who were consumed by fire.

Alma 14:10
 10 And when Amulek saw the pains of the women and children who
were consuming in the fire, he also was pained; and he said unto
Alma:



Alma 14:11
 11 But Alma said unto him: 


Alma 14:12
 12 Now Amulek said unto Alma: 




Alma 14:13
 13 And Alma said:



Alma 14:14
 14 Now it came to pass that when the bodies of those who had
been cast into the fire were consumed, and also the records which
were cast in with them, the chief judge of the land came and
stood before Alma and Amulek, as they were bound; and he smote
them with his hand upon their cheeks, and said unto them: 


And the judge smote them again upon their
cheeks, and asked: What say ye for yourselves?

Alma 14:16
 16 Now this judge was after the order and faith of Nehor, who
slew Gideon.

Alma 14:17
 17 And it came to pass that Alma and Amulek answered him
nothing; and he smote them again, and delivered them to the
officers to be cast into prison.

Alma 14:18
 18 And when they had been cast into prison three days, there
came many lawyers, and judges, and priests, and teachers, who
were of the profession of Nehor; and they came in unto the prison
to see them, and they questioned them about many words; but they
answered them nothing.

Alma 14:19
 19 And it came to pass that the judge stood before them, and
said:

And he
commanded them to speak; but they answered nothing.

Alma 14:20
 20 And it came to pass that they departed and went their ways,
but came again on the morrow; and the judge also smote them again
on their cheeks.  And many came forth also, and smote them,
saying: Will ye stand again and judge this people, and condemn
our law?  If ye have such great power why do ye not deliver
yourselves?

Alma 14:21
 21 And many such things did they say unto them, gnashing their
teeth upon them, and spitting upon them, and saying: How shall we
look when we are damned?

Alma 14:22
 22 And many such things, yea, all manner of such things did they
say unto them; and thus they did mock them for many days.  And
they did withhold food from them that they might hunger, and
water that they might thirst; and they also did take from them
their clothes that they were naked; and thus they were bound with
strong cords, and confined in prison.

Alma 14:23
 23 And it came to pass after they had thus suffered for many
days, (and it was on the twelfth day, in the tenth month, in the
tenth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi)
that the chief judge over the land of Ammonihah and many of their
teachers and their lawyers went in unto the prison where Alma and
Amulek were bound with cords.

Alma 14:24
 24 And the chief judge stood before them, and smote them again,
and said unto them: 



Alma 14:25
 25 And it came to pass that they all went forth and smote them,
saying the same words, even until the last; and when the last had
spoken unto them the power of God was upon Alma and Amulek, and
they rose and stood upon their feet.

Alma 14:26
 26 And Alma cried, saying:



 And they broke
the cords with which they were bound; and when the people saw
this, they began to flee, for the fear of destruction had come
upon them.

Alma 14:27
 27 And it came to pass that so great was their fear that they
fell to the earth, and did not obtain the outer door of the
prison; and the earth shook mightily, and the walls of the prison
were rent in twain, so that they fell to the earth; and the chief
judge, and the lawyers, and priests, and teachers, who smote upon
Alma and Amulek, were slain by the fall thereof.

Alma 14:28
 28 And Alma and Amulek came forth out of the prison, and they
were not hurt; for the Lord had granted unto them power,
according to their faith which was in Christ.  And they
straightway came forth out of the prison; and they were loosed
from their bands; and the prison had fallen to the earth, and
every soul within the walls thereof, save it were Alma and
Amulek, was slain; and they straightway came forth into the city.

Alma 14:29
 29 Now the people having heard a great noise came running
together by multitudes to know the cause of it; and when they saw
Alma and Amulek coming forth out of the prison, and the walls
thereof had fallen to the earth, they were struck with great
fear, and fled from the presence of Alma and Amulek even as a
goat fleeth with her young from two lions; and thus they did flee
from the presence of Alma and Amulek.

Alma 15
Chapter 15

Alma 15:1
 1 And it came to pass that Alma and Amulek were commanded to
depart out of that city; and they departed, and came out even
into the land of Sidom; and behold, there they found all the
people who had departed out of the land of Ammonihah, who had
been cast out and stoned, because they believed in the words of
Alma.

Alma 15:2
 2 And they related unto them all that had happened unto their
wives and children, and also concerning themselves, and of their
power of deliverance.

Alma 15:3
 3 And also Zeezrom lay sick at Sidom, with a burning fever,
which was caused by the great tribulations of his mind on account
of his wickedness, for he supposed that Alma and Amulek were no
more; and he supposed that they had been slain because of his
iniquity.  And this great sin, and his many other sins, did
harrow up his mind until it did become exceedingly sore, having
no deliverance; therefore he began to be scorched with a burning
heat.

Alma 15:4
 4 Now, when he heard that Alma and Amulek were in the land of
Sidom, his heart began to take courage; and he sent a message
immediately unto them, desiring them to come unto him.

Alma 15:5
 5 And it came to pass that they went immediately, obeying the
message which he had sent unto them; and they went in unto the
house unto Zeezrom; and they found him upon his bed, sick, being
very low with a burning fever; and his mind also was exceedingly
sore because of his iniquities; and when he saw them he stretched
forth his hand, and besought them that they would heal him.

Alma 15:6
 6 And it came to pass that Alma said unto him, taking him by the
hand:



Alma 15:7
 7 And he answered and said:


Alma 15:8
 8 And Alma said: 


Alma 15:9
 9 And he said:




Alma 15:10
 10 And then Alma cried unto the Lord, saying: 





Alma 15:11
 11 And when Alma had said these words, Zeezrom leaped upon his
feet, and began to walk; and this was done to the great
astonishment of all the people; and the knowledge of this went
forth throughout all the land of Sidom.

Alma 15:12
 12 And Alma baptized Zeezrom unto the Lord; and he began from
that time forth to preach unto the people.

Alma 15:13
 13 And Alma established a church in the land of Sidom, and
consecrated priests and teachers in the land, to baptize unto the
Lord whosoever were desirous to be baptized.

Alma 15:14
 14 And it came to pass that they were many; for they did flock
in from all the region round about Sidom, and were baptized.

Alma 15:15
 15 But as to the people that were in the land of Ammonihah, they
yet remained a hard-hearted and a stiffnecked people; and they
repented not of their sins, ascribing all the power of Alma and
Amulek to the devil; for they were of the profession of Nehor,
and did not believe in the repentance of their sins.

Alma 15:16
 16 And it came to pass that Alma and Amulek, Amulek having
forsaken all his gold, and silver, and his precious things, which
were in the land of Ammonihah, for the word of God, he being
rejected by those who were once his friends and also by his
father and his kindred;

Alma 15:17
 17 Therefore, after Alma having established the church at Sidom,
seeing a great check, yea, seeing that the people were checked as
to the pride of their hearts, and began to humble themselves
before God, and began to assemble themselves together at their
sanctuaries to worship God before the altar, watching and praying
continually, that they might be delivered from Satan, and from
death, and from destruction--

Alma 15:18
 18 Now as I said, Alma having seen all these things, therefore
he took Amulek and came over to the land of Zarahemla, and took
him to his own house, and did administer unto him in his
tribulations, and strengthened him in the Lord.

Alma 15:19
 19 And thus ended the tenth year of the reign of the judges over
the people of Nephi.

Alma 16
Chapter 16

Alma 16:1
 1 And it came to pass in the eleventh year of the reign of the
judges over the people of Nephi, on the fifth day of the second
month, there having been much peace in the land of Zarahemla,
there having been no wars nor contentions for a certain number of
years, even until the fifth day of the second month in the
eleventh year, there was a cry of war heard throughout the land.

Alma 16:2
 2 For behold, the armies of the Lamanites had come in upon the
wilderness side, into the borders of the land, even into the city
of Ammonihah, and began to slay the people and destroy the city.

Alma 16:3
 3 And now it came to pass, before the Nephites could raise a
sufficient army to drive them out of the land, they had destroyed
the people who were in the city of Ammonihah, and also some
around the borders of Noah, and taken others captive into the
wilderness.

Alma 16:4
 4 Now it came to pass that the Nephites were desirous to obtain
those who had been carried away captive into the wilderness.

Alma 16:5
 5 Therefore, he that had been appointed chief captain over the
armies of the Nephites, (and his name was Zoram, and he had two
sons, Lehi and Aha)--now Zoram and his two sons, knowing that
Alma was high priest over the church, and having heard that he
had the spirit of prophecy, therefore they went unto him and
desired of him to know whither the Lord would that they should go
into the wilderness in search of their brethren, who had been
taken captive by the Lamanites.

Alma 16:6
 6 And it came to pass that Alma inquired of the Lord concerning
the matter.  And Alma returned and said unto them:




Alma 16:7
 7 And it came to pass that Zoram and his sons crossed over the
river Sidon, with their armies, and marched away beyond the
borders of Manti into the south wilderness, which was on the east
side of the river Sidon.

Alma 16:8
 8 And they came upon the armies of the Lamanites, and the
Lamanites were scattered and driven into the wilderness; and they
took their brethren who had been taken captive by the Lamanites,
and there was not one soul of them had been lost that were taken
captive.  And they were brought by their brethren to possess
their own lands.

Alma 16:9
 9 And thus ended the eleventh year of the judges, the Lamanites
having been driven out of the land, and the people of Ammonihah
were destroyed; yea, every living soul of the Ammonihahites was
destroyed, and also their great city, which they said God could
not destroy, because of its greatness.

Alma 16:10
 10 But behold, in one day it was left desolate; and the
carcasses were mangled by dogs and wild beasts of the wilderness.

Alma 16:11
 11 Nevertheless, after many days their dead bodies were heaped
up upon the face of the earth, and they were covered with a
shallow covering.  And now so great was the scent thereof that
the people did not go in to possess the land of Ammonihah for
many years.  And it was called Desolation of Nehors; for they
were of the profession of Nehor, who were slain; and their lands
remained desolate.

Alma 16:12
 12 And the Lamanites did not come again to war against the
Nephites until the fourteenth year of the reign of the judges
over the people of Nephi.  And thus for three years did the
people of Nephi have continual peace in all the land.

Alma 16:13
 13 And Alma and Amulek went forth preaching repentance to the
people in their temples, and in their sanctuaries, and also in
their synagogues, which were built after the manner of the Jews.

Alma 16:14
 14 And as many as would hear their words, unto them they did
impart the word of God, without any respect of persons,
continually.

Alma 16:15
 15 And thus did Alma and Amulek go forth, and also many more who
had been chosen for the work, to preach the word throughout all
the land.  And the establishment of the church became general
throughout the land, in all the region round about, among all the
people of the Nephites.

Alma 16:16
 16 And there was no inequality among them; the Lord did pour out
his Spirit on all the face of the land to prepare the minds of
the children of men, or to prepare their hearts to receive the
word which should be taught among them at the time of his
coming--

Alma 16:17
 17 That they might not be hardened against the word, that they
might not be unbelieving, and go on to destruction, but that they
might receive the word with joy, and as a branch be grafted into
the true vine, that they might enter into the rest of the Lord
their God.

Alma 16:18
 18 Now those priests who did go forth among the people did
preach against all lyings, and deceivings, and envyings, and
strifes, and malice, and revilings, and stealing, robbing,
plundering, murdering, committing adultery, and all manner of
lasciviousness, crying that these things ought not so to be--

Alma 16:19
 19 Holding forth things which must shortly come; yea, holding
forth the coming of the Son of God, his sufferings and death, and
also the resurrection of the dead.

Alma 16:20
 20 And many of the people did inquire concerning the place where
the Son of God should come; and they were taught that he would
appear unto them after his resurrection; and this the people did
hear with great joy and gladness.

Alma 16:21
 21 And now after the church had been established throughout all
the land--having got the victory over the devil, and the word of
God being preached in its purity in all the land, and the Lord
pouring out his blessings upon the people--thus ended the
fourteenth year of the reign of the judges over the people of
Nephi.

Alma 17
Chapter 17

Alma 17:1
 1 And now it came to pass that as Alma was journeying from the
land of Gideon southward, away to the land of Manti, behold, to
his astonishment, he met with the sons of Mosiah journeying
towards the land of Zarahemla.

Alma 17:2
 2 Now these sons of Mosiah were with Alma at the time the angel
first appeared unto him; therefore Alma did rejoice exceedingly
to see his brethren; and what added more to his joy, they were
still his brethren in the Lord; yea, and they had waxed strong in
the knowledge of the truth; for they were men of a sound
understanding and they had searched the scriptures diligently,
that they might know the word of God.

Alma 17:3
 3 But this is not all; they had given themselves to much prayer,
and fasting; therefore they had the spirit of prophecy, and the
spirit of revelation, and when they taught, they taught with
power and authority of God.

Alma 17:4
 4 And they had been teaching the word of God for the space of
fourteen years among the Lamanites, having had much success in
bringing many to the knowledge of the truth; yea, by the power of
their words many were brought before the altar of God, to call on
his name and confess their sins before him.

Alma 17:5
 5 Now these are the circumstances which attended them in their
journeyings, for they had many afflictions; they did suffer much,
both in body and in mind, such as hunger, thirst and fatigue, and
also much labor in the spirit.

Alma 17:6
 6 Now these were their journeyings: Having taken leave of their
father, Mosiah, in the first year of the judges; having refused
the kingdom which their father was desirous to confer upon them,
and also this was the minds of the people;

Alma 17:7
 7 Nevertheless they departed out of the land of Zarahemla, and
took their swords, and their spears, and their bows, and their
arrows, and their slings; and this they did that they might
provide food for themselves while in the wilderness.

Alma 17:8
 8 And thus they departed into the wilderness with their numbers
which they had selected, to go up to the land of Nephi, to preach
the word of God unto the Lamanites.

Alma 17:9
 9 And it came to pass that they journeyed many days in the
wilderness, and they fasted much and prayed much that the Lord
would grant unto them a portion of his Spirit to go with them,
and abide with them, that they might be an instrument in the
hands of God to bring, if it were possible, their brethren, the
Lamanites, to the knowledge of the truth, to the knowledge of the
baseness of the traditions of their fathers, which were not
correct.

Alma 17:10
 10 And it came to pass that the Lord did visit them with his
Spirit, and said unto them: Be comforted.  And they were
comforted.

Alma 17:11
 11 And the Lord said unto them also:




Alma 17:12
 12 And it came to pass that the hearts of the sons of Mosiah,
and also those who were with them, took courage to go forth unto
the Lamanites to declare unto them the word of God.

Alma 17:13
 13 And it came to pass when they had arrived in the borders of
the land of the Lamanites, that they separated themselves and
departed one from another, trusting in the Lord that they should
meet again at the close of their harvest; for they supposed that
great was the work which they had undertaken.

Alma 17:14
 14 And assuredly it was great, for they had undertaken to preach
the word of God to a wild and a hardened and a ferocious people;
a people who delighted in murdering the Nephites, and robbing and
plundering them; and their hearts were set upon riches, or upon
gold and silver, and precious stones; yet they sought to obtain
these things by murdering and plundering, that they might not
labor for them with their own hands.

Alma 17:15
 15 Thus they were a very indolent people, many of whom did
worship idols, and the curse of God had fallen upon them because
of the traditions of their fathers; notwithstanding the promises
of the Lord were extended unto them on the conditions of
repentance.

Alma 17:16
 16 Therefore, this was the cause for which the sons of Mosiah
had undertaken the work, that perhaps they might bring them unto
repentance; that perhaps they might bring them to know of the
plan of redemption.

Alma 17:17
 17 Therefore they separated themselves one from another, and
went forth among them, every man alone, according to the word and
power of God which was given unto him.

Alma 17:18
 18 Now Ammon being the chief among them, or rather he did
administer unto them, and he departed from them, after having
blessed them according to their several stations, having imparted
the word of God unto them, or administered unto them before his
departure; and thus they took their several journeys throughout
the land.

Alma 17:19
 19 And Ammon went to the land of Ishmael, the land being called
after the sons of Ishmael, who also became Lamanites.

Alma 17:20
 20 And as Ammon entered the land of Ishmael, the Lamanites took
him and bound him, as was their custom to bind all the Nephites
who fell into their hands, and carry them before the king; and
thus it was left to the pleasure of the king to slay them, or to
retain them in captivity, or to cast them into prison, or to cast
them out of his land, according to his will and pleasure.

Alma 17:21
 21 And thus Ammon was carried before the king who was over the
land of Ishmael; and his name was Lamoni; and he was a descendant
of Ishmael.

Alma 17:22
 22 And the king inquired of Ammon if it were his desire to dwell
in the land among the Lamanites, or among his people.

Alma 17:23
 23 And Ammon said unto him: 




Alma 17:24
 24 And it came to pass that king Lamoni was much pleased with
Ammon, and caused that his bands should be loosed; and he would
that Ammon should take one of his daughters to wife.

Alma 17:25
 25 But Ammon said unto him:





Therefore Ammon became a servant to king Lamoni.  And it came to
pass that he was set among other servants to watch the flocks of
Lamoni, according to the custom of the Lamanites.

Alma 17:26
 26 And after he had been in the service of the king three days,
as he was with the Lamanitish servants going forth with their
flocks to the place of water, which was called the water of
Sebus, and all the Lamanites drive their flocks hither, that they
may have water--

Alma 17:27
 27 Therefore, as Ammon and the servants of the king were driving
forth their flocks to this place of water, behold, a certain
number of the Lamanites, who had been with their flocks to water,
stood and scattered the flocks of Ammon and the servants of the
king, and they scattered them insomuch that they fled many ways.

Alma 17:28
 28 Now the servants of the king began to murmur, saying: Now the
king will slay us, as he has our brethren because their flocks
were scattered by the wickedness of these men.  And they began to
weep exceedingly, saying: Behold, our flocks are scattered
already.

Alma 17:29
 29 Now they wept because of the fear of being slain.  Now when
Ammon saw this his heart was swollen within him with joy; for,
said he, I will show forth my power unto these my
fellow-servants, or the power which is in me, in restoring these
flocks unto the king, that I may win the hearts of these my
fellow-servants, that I may lead them to believe in my words.

Alma 17:30
 30 And now, these were the thoughts of Ammon, when he saw the
afflictions of those whom he termed to be his brethren.

Alma 17:31
 31 And it came to pass that he flattered them by his words,
saying:







Alma 17:32
 32 And it came to pass that they went in search of the flocks,
and they did follow Ammon, and they rushed forth with much
swiftness and did head the flocks of the king, and did gather
them together again to the place of water.

Alma 17:33
 33 And those men again stood to scatter their flocks; but Ammon
said unto his brethren: 





Alma 17:34
 34 Therefore, they did as Ammon commanded them, and he went
forth and stood to contend with those who stood by the waters of
Sebus; and they were in number not a few.

Alma 17:35
 35 Therefore they did not fear Ammon, for they supposed that one
of their men could slay him according to their pleasure, for they
knew not that the Lord had promised Mosiah that he would deliver
his sons out of their hands; neither did they know anything
concerning the Lord; therefore they delighted in the destruction
of their brethren; and for this cause they stood to scatter the
flocks of the king.

Alma 17:36
 36 But Ammon stood forth and began to cast stones at them with
his sling; yea, with mighty power he did sling stones amongst
them; and thus he slew a certain number of them insomuch that
they began to be astonished at his power; nevertheless they were
angry because of the slain of their brethren, and they were
determined that he should fall; therefore, seeing that they could
not hit him with their stones, they came forth with clubs to slay
him.

Alma 17:37
 37 But behold, every man that lifted his club to smite Ammon, he
smote off their arms with his sword; for he did withstand their
blows by smiting their arms with the edge of his sword, insomuch
that they began to be astonished, and began to flee before him;
yea, and they were not few in number; and he caused them to flee
by the strength of his arm.

Alma 17:38
 38 Now six of them had fallen by the sling, but he slew none
save it were their leader with his sword; and he smote off as
many of their arms as were lifted against him, and they were not
a few.

Alma 17:39
 39 And when he had driven them afar off, he returned and they
watered their flocks and returned them to the pasture of the
king, and then went in unto the king, bearing the arms which had
been smitten off by the sword of Ammon, of those who sought to
slay him; and they were carried in unto the king for a testimony
of the things which they had done.

Alma 18
Chapter 18

Alma 18:1
 1 And it came to pass that king Lamoni caused that his servants
should stand forth and testify to all the things which they had
seen concerning the matter.

Alma 18:2
 2 And when they had all testified to the things which they had
seen, and he had learned of the faithfulness of Ammon in
preserving his flocks, and also of his great power in contending
against those who sought to slay him, he was astonished
exceedingly, and said: Surely, this is more than a man.  Behold,
is not this the Great Spirit who doth send such great punishments
upon this people, because of their murders?

Alma 18:3
 3 And they answered the king, and said: Whether he be the Great
Spirit or a man, we know not; but this much we do know, that he
cannot be slain by the enemies of the king; neither can they
scatter the king's flocks when he is with us, because of his
expertness and great strength; therefore, we know that he is a
friend to the king.  And now, O king, we do not believe that a
man has such great power, for we know he cannot be slain.

Alma 18:4
 4 And now, when the king heard these words, he said unto them:


 
Alma 18:5
 5 Now this was the tradition of Lamoni, which he had received
from his father, that there was a Great Spirit.  Notwithstanding
they believed in a Great Spirit they supposed that whatsoever
they did was right; nevertheless, Lamoni began to fear
exceedingly, with fear lest he had done wrong in slaying his
servants;

Alma 18:6
 6 For he had slain many of them because their brethren had
scattered their flocks at the place of water; and thus, because
they had had their flocks scattered they were slain.

Alma 18:7
 7 Now it was the practice of these Lamanites to stand by the
waters of Sebus to scatter the flocks of the people, that thereby
they might drive away many that were scattered unto their own
land, it being a practice of plunder among them.

Alma 18:8
 8 And it came to pass that king Lamoni inquired of his servants,
saying:



Alma 18:9
 9 And they said unto him: Behold, he is feeding thy horses.  Now
the king had commanded his servants, previous to the time of the
watering of their flocks, that they should prepare his horses and
chariots, and conduct him forth to the land of Nephi; for there
had been a great feast appointed at the land of Nephi, by the
father of Lamoni, who was king over all the land.

Alma 18:10
 10 Now when king Lamoni heard that Ammon was preparing his
horses and his chariots he was more astonished, because of the
faithfulness of Ammon, saying:




Alma 18:12
 12 And it came to pass that when Ammon had made ready the horses
and the chariots for the king and his servants, he went in unto
the king, and he saw that the countenance of the king was
changed; therefore he was about to return out of his presence.

Alma 18:13
 13 And one of the king's servants said unto him, Rabbanah, which
is, being interpreted, powerful or great king, considering their
kings to be powerful; and thus he said unto him: Rabbanah, the
king desireth thee to stay.

Alma 18:14
 14 Therefore Ammon turned himself unto the king, and said unto
him:


And the
king answered him not for the space of an hour, according to
their time, for he knew not what he should say unto him.

Alma 18:15
 15 And it came to pass that Ammon said unto him again:


But the king answered him not.

Alma 18:16
 16 And it came to pass that Ammon, being filled with the Spirit
of God, therefore he perceived the thoughts of the king.  And he
said unto him:



Alma 18:18
 18 Now when the king had heard these words, he marveled again,
for he beheld that Ammon could discern his thoughts; but
notwithstanding this, king Lamoni did open his mouth, and said
unto him:


Alma 18:19
 19 Ammon answered and said unto him: 





Alma 18:20
 20 And the king said: 





Alma 18:22
 22 Now Ammon being wise, yet harmless, he said unto Lamoni:



Alma 18:23
 23 And the king answered him, and said:


And thus he was caught with guile.




Alma 18:24
 24 And Ammon began to speak unto him with boldness, and said
unto him:



Alma 18:25
 25 And he answered, and said unto him: 



 
Alma 18:26
 26 And then Ammon said: 


Alma 18:27
 27 And he said, Yea.

Alma 18:28
 28 And Ammon said: 


Alma 18:29
 29 And he said:


Alma 18:30
 30 And Ammon said unto him:



Alma 18:31
 31 And king Lamoni said:



Alma 18:32
 32 And Ammon said:


Alma 18:33
 33 And king Lamoni said: 


Alma 18:34
 34 Ammon said unto him: 



Alma 18:36
 36 Now when Ammon had said these words, he began at the creation
of the world, and also the creation of Adam, and told him all the
things concerning the fall of man, and rehearsed and laid before
him the records and the holy scriptures of the people, which had
been spoken by the prophets, even down to the time that their
father, Lehi, left Jerusalem.

Alma 18:37
 37 And he also rehearsed unto them (for it was unto the king and
to his servants) all the journeyings of their fathers in the
wilderness, and all their sufferings with hunger and thirst, and
their travail, and so forth.

Alma 18:38
 38 And he also rehearsed unto them concerning the rebellions of
Laman and Lemuel, and the sons of Ishmael, yea, all their
rebellions did he relate unto them; and he expounded unto them
all the records and scriptures from the time that Lehi left
Jerusalem down to the present time.

Alma 18:39
 39 But this is not all; for he expounded unto them the plan of
redemption, which was prepared from the foundation of the world;
and he also made known unto them concerning the coming of Christ,
and all the works of the Lord did he make known unto them.

Alma 18:40
 40 And it came to pass that after he had said all these things,
and expounded them to the king, that the king believed all his
words.

Alma 18:41
 41 And he began to cry unto the Lord, saying: 





Alma 18:42
 42 And now, when he had said this, he fell unto the earth, as if
he were dead.

Alma 18:43
 43 And it came to pass that his servants took him and carried
him in unto his wife, and laid him upon a bed; and he lay as if
he were dead for the space of two days and two nights; and his
wife, and his sons, and his daughters mourned over him, after the
manner of the Lamanites, greatly lamenting his loss.

Alma 19
Chapter 19

Alma 19:1
 1 And it came to pass that after two days and two nights they
were about to take his body and lay it in a sepulchre, which they
had made for the purpose of burying their dead.

Alma 19:2
 2 Now the queen having heard of the fame of Ammon, therefore she
sent and desired that he should come in unto her.

Alma 19:3
 3 And it came to pass that Ammon did as he was commanded, and
went in unto the queen, and desired to know what she would that
he should do.

Alma 19:4
 4 And she said unto him: 


Alma 19:6
 6 Now, this was what Ammon desired, for he knew that king Lamoni
was under the power of God; he knew that the dark veil of
unbelief was being cast away from his mind, and the light which
did light up his mind, which was the light of the glory of God,
which was a marvelous light of his goodness--yea, this light had
infused such joy into his soul, the cloud of darkness having been
dispelled, and that the light of everlasting life was lit up in
his soul, yea, he knew that this had overcome his natural frame,
and he was carried away in God--

Alma 19:7
 7 Therefore, what the queen desired of him was his only desire. 
Therefore, he went in to see the king according as the queen had
desired him; and he saw the king, and he knew that he was not
dead.

Alma 19:8
 8 And he said unto the queen:



Alma 19:9
 9 And Ammon said unto her: 


And she said
unto him: 



Alma 19:10
 10 And Ammon said unto her: 



Alma 19:11
 11 And it came to pass that she watched over the bed of her
husband, from that time even until that time on the morrow which
Ammon had appointed that he should rise.

Alma 19:12
 12 And it came to pass that he arose, according to the words of
Ammon; and as he arose, he stretched forth his hand unto the
woman, and said: 



Now, when he had
said these words, his heart was swollen within him, and he sunk
again with joy; and the queen also sunk down, being overpowered
by the Spirit.

Alma 19:14
 14 Now Ammon seeing the Spirit of the Lord poured out according
to his prayers upon the Lamanites, his brethren, who had been the
cause of so much mourning among the Nephites, or among all the
people of God because of their iniquities and their traditions,
he fell upon his knees, and began to pour out his soul in prayer
and thanksgiving to God for what he had done for his brethren;
and he was also overpowered with joy; and thus they all three had
sunk to the earth.

Alma 19:15
 15 Now, when the servants of the king had seen that they had
fallen, they also began to cry unto God, for the fear of the Lord
had come upon them also, for it was they who had stood before the
king and testified unto him concerning the great power of Ammon.

Alma 19:16
 16 And it came to pass that they did call on the name of the
Lord, in their might, even until they had all fallen to the
earth, save it were one of the Lamanitish women, whose name was
Abish, she having been converted unto the Lord for many years, on
account of a remarkable vision of her father--

Alma 19:17
 17 Thus, having been converted to the Lord, and never having
made it known, therefore, when she saw that all the servants of
Lamoni had fallen to the earth, and also her mistress, the queen,
and the king, and Ammon lay prostrate upon the earth, she knew
that it was the power of God; and supposing that this
opportunity, by making known unto the people what had happened
among them, that by beholding this scene it would cause them to
believe in the power of God, therefore she ran forth from house
to house, making it known unto the people.

Alma 19:18
 18 And they began to assemble themselves together unto the house
of the king.  And there came a multitude, and to their
astonishment they beheld the king, and the queen, and their
servants prostrate upon the earth, and they all lay there as
though they were dead; and they also saw Ammon, and behold, he
was a Nephite.

Alma 19:19
 19 And now the people began to murmur among themselves; some
saying that it was a great evil that had come upon them, or upon
the king and his house, because he had suffered that the Nephite
should remain in the land.

Alma 19:20
 20 But others rebuked them, saying: The king hath brought this
evil upon his house, because he slew his servants who had had
their flocks scattered at the waters of Sebus.

Alma 19:21
 21 And they were also rebuked by those men who had stood at the
waters of Sebus and scattered the flocks which belonged to the
king, for they were angry with Ammon because of the number which
he had slain of their brethren at the waters of Sebus, while
defending the flocks of the king.

Alma 19:22
 22 Now, one of them, whose brother had been slain with the sword
of Ammon, being exceedingly angry with Ammon, drew his sword and
went forth that he might let it fall upon Ammon, to slay him; and
as he lifted the sword to smite him, behold, he fell dead.

Alma 19:23
 23 Now we see that Ammon could not be slain, for the Lord had
said unto Mosiah, his father: 

--therefore, Mosiah trusted him
unto the Lord.



Alma 19:24
 24 And it came to pass that when the multitude beheld that the
man had fallen dead, who lifted the sword to slay Ammon, fear
came upon them all, and they durst not put forth their hands to
touch him or any of those who had fallen; and they began to
marvel again among themselves what could be the cause of this
great power, or what all these things could mean.

Alma 19:25
 25 And it came to pass that there were many among them who said
that Ammon was the Great Spirit, and others said he was sent by
the Great Spirit;

Alma 19:26
 26 But others rebuked them all, saying that he was a monster,
who had been sent from the Nephites to torment them.

Alma 19:27
 27 And there were some who said that Ammon was sent by the Great
Spirit to afflict them because of their iniquities; and that it
was the Great Spirit that had always attended the Nephites, who
had ever delivered them out of their hands; and they said that it
was this Great Spirit who had destroyed so many of their
brethren, the Lamanites.

Alma 19:28
 28 And thus the contention began to be exceedingly sharp among
them.  And while they were thus contending, the woman servant who
had caused the multitude to be gathered together came, and when
she saw the contention which was among the multitude she was
exceedingly sorrowful, even unto tears.

Alma 19:29
 29 And it came to pass that she went and took the queen by the
hand, that perhaps she might raise her from the ground; and as
soon as she touched her hand she arose and stood upon her feet,
and cried with a loud voice, saying: 





Alma 19:30
 30 And when she had said this, she clasped her hands, being
filled with joy, speaking many words which were not understood;
and when she had done this, she took the king, Lamoni, by the
hand, and behold he arose and stood upon his feet.

Alma 19:31
 31 And he, immediately, seeing the contention among his people,
went forth and began to rebuke them, and to teach them the words
which he had heard from the mouth of Ammon; and as many as heard
his words believed, and were converted unto the Lord.

Alma 19:32
 32 But there were many among them who would not hear his words;
therefore they went their way.

Alma 19:33
 33 And it came to pass that when Ammon arose he also
administered unto them, and also did all the servants of Lamoni;
and they did all declare unto the people the selfsame thing--that
their hearts had been changed; that they had no more desire to do
evil.

Alma 19:34
 34 And behold, many did declare unto the people that they had
seen angels and had conversed with them; and thus they had told
them things of God, and of his righteousness.

Alma 19:35
 35 And it came to pass that there were many that did believe in
their words; and as many as did believe were baptized; and they
became a righteous people, and they did establish a church among
them.

Alma 19:36
 36 And thus the work of the Lord did commence among the
Lamanites; thus the Lord did begin to pour out his Spirit upon
them; and we see that his arm is extended to all people who will
repent and believe on his name.

Alma 20
Chapter 20

Alma 20:1
 1 And it came to pass that when they had established a church in
that land, that king Lamoni desired that Ammon should go with him
to the land of Nephi, that he might show him unto his father.

Alma 20:2
 2 And the voice of the Lord came to Ammon saying:


Alma 20:3
 3 Now it came to pass that when Ammon had heard this, he said
unto Lamoni:


Alma 20:4
 4 Now Lamoni said unto Ammon:

Now Lamoni said unto
him:


Alma 20:5
 5 And Ammon said unto him: 



Alma 20:6
 6 Now when Lamoni had heard this he caused that his servants
should make ready his horses and his chariots.

Alma 20:7
 7 And he said unto Ammon: 



Alma 20:8
 8 And it came to pass that as Ammon and Lamoni were journeying
thither, they met the father of Lamoni, who was king over all the
land.

Alma 20:9
 9 And behold, the father of Lamoni said unto him: 





Alma 20:11
 11 And it came to pass that Lamoni rehearsed unto him whither he
was going, for he feared to offend him.

Alma 20:12
 12 And he also told him all the cause of his tarrying in his own
kingdom, that he did not go unto his father to the feast which he
had prepared.

Alma 20:13
 13 And now when Lamoni had rehearsed unto him all these things,
behold, to his astonishment, his father was angry with him, and
said:



Alma 20:14
 14 Now the father of Lamoni commanded him that he should slay
Ammon with the sword.  And he also commanded him that he should
not go to the land of Middoni, but that he should return with him
to the land of Ishmael.

Alma 20:15
 15 But Lamoni said unto him:



Alma 20:16
 16 Now when his father had heard these words, he was angry with
him, and he drew his sword that he might smite him to the earth.

Alma 20:17
 17 But Ammon stood forth and said unto him:



Alma 20:19
 19 Now when Ammon had said these words unto him, he answered
him, saying: 


Alma 20:20
 20 And he stretched forth his hand to slay Ammon.  But Ammon
withstood his blows, and also smote his arm that he could not use
it.

Alma 20:21
 21 Now when the king saw that Ammon could slay him, he began to
plead with Ammon that he would spare his life.

Alma 20:22
 22 But Ammon raised his sword, and said unto him:


Alma 20:23
 23 Now the king, fearing he should lose his life, said:



Alma 20:24
 24 Now when Ammon saw that he had wrought upon the old king
according to his desire, he said unto him: 



Alma 20:25
 25 Now when Ammon had said these words, the king began to
rejoice because of his life.

Alma 20:26
 26 And when he saw that Ammon had no desire to destroy him, and
when he also saw the great love he had for his son Lamoni, he was
astonished exceedingly, and said: 

For the king
was greatly astonished at the words which he had spoken, and also
at the words which had been spoken by his son Lamoni, therefore
he was desirous to learn them.

Alma 20:28
 28 And it came to pass that Ammon and Lamoni proceeded on their
journey towards the land of Middoni.  And Lamoni found favor in
the eyes of the king of the land; therefore the brethren of Ammon
were brought forth out of prison.

Alma 20:29
 29 And when Ammon did meet them he was exceedingly sorrowful,
for behold they were naked, and their skins were worn exceedingly
because of being bound with strong cords.  And they also had
suffered hunger, thirst, and all kinds of afflictions;
nevertheless they were patient in all their sufferings.

Alma 20:30
 30 And, as it happened, it was their lot to have fallen into the
hands of a more hardened and a more stiffnecked people; therefore
they would not hearken unto their words, and they had cast them
out, and had smitten them, and had driven them from house to
house, and from place to place, even until they had arrived in
the land of Middoni; and there they were taken and cast into
prison, and bound with strong cords, and kept in prison for many
days, and were delivered by Lamoni and Ammon.



Alma 21
Chapter 21

Alma 21:1
 1 Now when Ammon and his brethren separated themselves in the
borders of the land of the Lamanites, behold Aaron took his
journey towards the land which was called by the Lamanites,
Jerusalem, calling it after the land of their fathers' nativity;
and it was away joining the borders of Mormon.

Alma 21:2
 2 Now the Lamanites and the Amalekites and the people of Amulon
had built a great city, which was called Jerusalem.

Alma 21:3
 3 Now the Lamanites of themselves were sufficiently hardened,
but the Amalekites and the Amulonites were still harder;
therefore they did cause the Lamanites that they should harden
their hearts, that they should wax strong in wickedness and their
abominations.

Alma 21:4
 4 And it came to pass that Aaron came to the city of Jerusalem,
and first began to preach to the Amalekites.  And he began to
preach to them in their synagogues, for they had built synagogues
after the order of the Nehors; for many of the Amalekites and the
Amulonites were after the order of the Nehors.

Alma 21:5
 5 Therefore, as Aaron entered into one of their synagogues to
preach unto the people, and as he was speaking unto them, behold
there arose an Amalekite and began to contend with him, saying:


Alma 21:7
 7 Now Aaron said unto him:




Alma 21:8
 8 And the man said unto him:



Alma 21:9
 9 Now Aaron began to open the scriptures unto them concerning
the coming of Christ, and also concerning the resurrection of the
dead, and that there could be no redemption for mankind save it
were through the death and sufferings of Christ, and the
atonement of his blood.

Alma 21:10
 10 And it came to pass as he began to expound these things unto
them they were angry with him, and began to mock him; and they
would not hear the words which he spake.

Alma 21:11
 11 Therefore, when he saw that they would not hear his words, he
departed out of their synagogue, and came over to a village which
was called Ani-Anti, and there he found Muloki preaching the word
unto them; and also Ammah and his brethren.  And they contended
with many about the word.

Alma 21:12
 12 And it came to pass that they saw that the people would
harden their hearts, therefore they departed and came over into
the land of Middoni.  And they did preach the word unto many, and
few believed on the words which they taught.

Alma 21:13
 13 Nevertheless, Aaron and a certain number of his brethren were
taken and cast into prison, and the remainder of them fled out of
the land of Middoni unto the regions round about.

Alma 21:14
 14 And those who were cast into prison suffered many things, and
they were delivered by the hand of Lamoni and Ammon, and they
were fed and clothed.

Alma 21:15
 15 And they went forth again to declare the word, and thus they
were delivered for the first time out of prison; and thus they
had suffered.

Alma 21:16
 16 And they went forth whithersoever they were led by the Spirit
of the Lord, preaching the word of God in every synagogue of the
Amalekites, or in every assembly of the Lamanites where they
could be admitted.

Alma 21:17
 17 And it came to pass that the Lord began to bless them,
insomuch that they brought many to the knowledge of the truth;
yea, they did convince many of their sins, and of the traditions
of their fathers, which were not correct.

Alma 21:18
 18 And it came to pass that Ammon and Lamoni returned from the
land of Middoni to the land of Ishmael, which was the land of
their inheritance.

Alma 21:19
 19 And king Lamoni would not suffer that Ammon should serve him,
or be his servant.

Alma 21:20
 20 But he caused that there should be synagogues built in the
land of Ishmael; and he caused that his people, or the people who
were under his reign, should assemble themselves together.

Alma 21:21
 21 And he did rejoice over them, and he did teach them many
things.  And he did also declare unto them that they were a
people who were under him, and that they were a free people, that
they were free from the oppressions of the king, his father; for
that his father had granted unto him that he might reign over the
people who were in the land of Ishmael, and in all the land round
about.

Alma 21:22
 22 And he also declared unto them that they might have the
liberty of worshiping the Lord their God according to their
desires, in whatsoever place they were in, if it were in the land
which was under the reign of king Lamoni.

Alma 21:23
 23 And Ammon did preach unto the people of king Lamoni; and it
came to pass that he did teach them all things concerning things
pertaining to righteousness.  And he did exhort them daily, with
all diligence; and they gave heed unto his word, and they were
zealous for keeping the commandments of God.

Alma 22
Chapter 22

Alma 22:1
 1 Now, as Ammon was thus teaching the people of Lamoni
continually, we will return to the account of Aaron and his
brethren; for after he departed from the land of Middoni he was
led by the Spirit to the land of Nephi, even to the house of the
king which was over all the land save it were the land of
Ishmael; and he was the father of Lamoni.

Alma 22:2
 2 And it came to pass that he went in unto him into the king's
palace, with his brethren, and bowed himself before the king, and
said unto him: Behold, O king, we are the brethren of Ammon, whom
thou hast delivered out of prison.

Alma 22:3
 3 And now, O king, if thou wilt spare our lives, we will be thy
servants.  And the king said unto them:



Alma 22:4
 4 And Aaron said unto the king:


Alma 22:5
 5 Now the king said unto them: 


Alma 22:7
 7 And Aaron answered him and said unto him: 

And the king said:



Alma 22:8
 8 And now when Aaron heard this, his heart began to rejoice, and
he said:



Alma 22:9
 9 And the king said:



Alma 22:10
 10 And Aaron said unto him: 


Alma 22:11
 11 And he said:



Alma 22:12
 12 And it came to pass that when Aaron saw that the king would
believe his words, he began from the creation of Adam, reading
the scriptures unto the king--how God created man after his own
image, and that God gave him commandments, and that because of
transgression, man had fallen.

Alma 22:13
 13 And Aaron did expound unto him the scriptures from the
creation of Adam, laying the fall of man before him, and their
carnal state and also the plan of redemption, which was prepared
from the foundation of the world, through Christ, for all
whosoever would believe on his name.

Alma 22:14
 14 And since man had fallen he could not merit anything of
himself; but the sufferings and death of Christ atone for their
sins, through faith and repentance, and so forth; and that he
breaketh the bands of death, that the grave shall have no
victory, and that the sting of death should be swallowed up in
the hopes of glory; and Aaron did expound all these things unto
the king.

Alma 22:15
 15 And it came to pass that after Aaron had expounded these
things unto him, the king said:


Alma 22:16
 16 But Aaron said unto him:


Alma 22:17
 17 And it came to pass that when Aaron had said these words, the
king did bow down before the Lord, upon his knees; yea, even he
did prostrate himself upon the earth, and cried mightily, saying:


And now
when the king had said these words, he was struck as if he were
dead.

Alma 22:19
 19 And it came to pass that his servants ran and told the queen
all that had happened unto the king.  And she came in unto the
king; and when she saw him lay as if he were dead, and also Aaron
and his brethren standing as though they had been the cause of
his fall, she was angry with them, and commanded that her
servants, or the servants of the king, should take them and slay
them.

Alma 22:20
 20 Now the servants had seen the cause of the king's fall,
therefore they durst not lay their hands on Aaron and his
brethren; and they pled with the queen saying: Why commandest
thou that we should slay these men, when behold one of them is
mightier than us all?  Therefore we shall fall before them.

Alma 22:21
 21 Now when the queen saw the fear of the servants she also
began to fear exceedingly, lest there should some evil come upon
her.  And she commanded her servants that they should go and call
the people, that they might slay Aaron and his brethren.

Alma 22:22
 22 Now when Aaron saw the determination of the queen, he, also
knowing the hardness of the hearts of the people, feared lest
that a multitude should assemble themselves together, and there
should be a great contention and a disturbance among them;
therefore he put forth his hand and raised the king from the
earth, and said unto him: Stand.  And he stood upon his feet,
receiving his strength.

Alma 22:23
 23 Now this was done in the presence of the queen and many of
the servants.  And when they saw it they greatly marveled, and
began to fear.  And the king stood forth, and began to minister
unto them.  And he did minister unto them, insomuch that his
whole household were converted unto the Lord.

Alma 22:24
 24 Now there was a multitude gathered together because of the
commandment of the queen, and there began to be great murmurings
among them because of Aaron and his brethren.

Alma 22:25
 25 But the king stood forth among them and administered unto
them.  And they were pacified towards Aaron and those who were
with him.

Alma 22:26
 26 And it came to pass that when the king saw that the people
were pacified, he caused that Aaron and his brethren should stand
forth in the midst of the multitude, and that they should preach
the word unto them.

Alma 22:27
 27 And it came to pass that the king sent a proclamation
throughout all the land, amongst all his people who were in all
his land, who were in all the regions round about, which was
bordering even to the sea, on the east and on the west, and which
was divided from the land of Zarahemla by a narrow strip of
wilderness, which ran from the sea east even to the sea west, and
round about on the borders of the seashore, and the borders of
the wilderness which was on the north by the land of Zarahemla,
through the borders of Manti, by the head of the river Sidon,
running from the east towards the west--and thus were the
Lamanites and the Nephites divided.

Alma 22:28
 28 Now, the more idle part of the Lamanites lived in the
wilderness, and dwelt in tents; and they were spread through the
wilderness on the west, in the land of Nephi; yea, and also on
the west of the land of Zarahemla, in the borders by the
seashore, and on the west in the land of Nephi, in the place of
their fathers' first inheritance, and thus bordering along by the
seashore.

Alma 22:29
 29 And also there were many Lamanites on the east by the
seashore, whither the Nephites had driven them.  And thus the
Nephites were nearly surrounded by the Lamanites; nevertheless
the Nephites had taken possession of all the northern parts of
the land bordering on the wilderness, at the head of the river
Sidon, from the east to the west, round about on the wilderness
side; on the north, even until they came to the land which they
called Bountiful.

Alma 22:30
 30 And it bordered upon the land which they called Desolation,
it being so far northward that it came into the land which had
been peopled and been destroyed, of whose bones we have spoken,
which was discovered by the people of Zarahemla, it being the
place of their first landing.

Alma 22:31
 31 And they came from there up into the south wilderness.  Thus
the land on the northward was called Desolation, and the land on
the southward was called Bountiful, it being the wilderness which
is filled with all manner of wild animals of every kind, a part
of which had come from the land northward for food.

Alma 22:32
 32 And now, it was only the distance of a day and a half's
journey for a Nephite, on the line Bountiful and the land
Desolation, from the east to the west sea; and thus the land of
Nephi and the land of Zarahemla were nearly surrounded by water,
there being a small neck of land between the land northward and
the land southward.

Alma 22:33
 33 And it came to pass that the Nephites had inhabited the land
Bountiful, even from the east unto the west sea, and thus the
Nephites in their wisdom, with their guards and their armies, had
hemmed in the Lamanites on the south, that thereby they should
have no more possession on the north, that they might not overrun
the land northward.

Alma 22:34
 34 Therefore the Lamanites could have no more possessions only
in the land of Nephi, and the wilderness round about.  Now this
was wisdom in the Nephites--as the Lamanites were an enemy to
them, they would not suffer their afflictions on every hand, and
also that they might have a country whither they might flee,
according to their desires.

Alma 22:35
 35 And now I, after having said this, return again to the
account of Ammon and Aaron, Omner and Himni, and their brethren.




Alma 23
Chapter 23

Alma 23:1
 1 Behold, now it came to pass that the king of the Lamanites
sent a proclamation among all his people, that they should not
lay their hands on Ammon, or Aaron, or Omner, or Himni, nor
either of their brethren who should go forth preaching the word
of God, in whatsoever place they should be, in any part of their
land.

Alma 23:2
 2 Yea, he sent a decree among them, that they should not lay
their hands on them to bind them, or to cast them into prison;
neither should they spit upon them, nor smite them, nor cast them
out of their synagogues, nor scourge them; neither should they
cast stones at them, but that they should have free access to
their houses, and also their temples, and their sanctuaries.

Alma 23:3
 3 And thus they might go forth and preach the word according to
their desires, for the king had been converted unto the Lord, and
all his household; therefore he sent his proclamation throughout
the land unto his people, that the word of God might have no
obstruction, but that it might go forth throughout all the land,
that his people might be convinced concerning the wicked
traditions of their fathers, and that they might be convinced
that they were all brethren, and that they ought not to murder,
nor to plunder, nor to steal, nor to commit adultery, nor to
commit any manner of wickedness.

Alma 23:4
 4 And now it came to pass that when the king had sent forth this
proclamation, that Aaron and his brethren went forth from city to
city, and from one house of worship to another, establishing
churches, and consecrating priests and teachers throughout the
land among the Lamanites, to preach and to teach the word of God
among them; and thus they began to have great success.

Alma 23:5
 5 And thousands were brought to the knowledge of the Lord, yea,
thousands were brought to believe in the traditions of the
Nephites; and they were taught the records and prophecies which
were handed down even to the present time.

Alma 23:6
 6 And as sure as the Lord liveth, so sure as many as believed,
or as many as were brought to the knowledge of the truth, through
the preaching of Ammon and his brethren, according to the spirit
of revelation and of prophecy, and the power of God working
miracles in them--yea, I say unto you, as the Lord liveth, as
many of the Lamanites as believed in their preaching, and were
converted unto the Lord, never did fall away.

Alma 23:7
 7 For they became a righteous people; they did lay down the
weapons of their rebellion, that they did not fight against God
any more, neither against any of their brethren.

Alma 23:8
 8 Now, these are they who were converted unto the Lord:

Alma 23:9
 9 The people of the Lamanites who were in the land of Ishmael;

Alma 23:10
 10 And also of the people of the Lamanites who were in the land
of Middoni;

Alma 23:11
 11 And also of the people of the Lamanites who were in the city
of Nephi;

Alma 23:12
 12 And also of the people of the Lamanites who were in the land
of Shilom, and who were in the land of Shemlon, and in the city
of Lemuel, and in the city of Shimnilom.

Alma 23:13
 13 And these are the names of the cities of the Lamanites which
were converted unto the Lord; and these are they that laid down
the weapons of their rebellion, yea, all their weapons of war;
and they were all Lamanites.

Alma 23:14
 14 And the Amalekites were not converted, save only one; neither
were any of the Amulonites; but they did harden their hearts, and
also the hearts of the Lamanites in that part of the land
wheresoever they dwelt, yea, and all their villages and all their
cities.

Alma 23:15
 15 Therefore, we have named all the cities of the Lamanites in
which they did repent and come to the knowledge of the truth, and
were converted.

Alma 23:16
 16 And now it came to pass that the king and those who were
converted were desirous that they might have a name, that thereby
they might be distinguished from their brethren; therefore the
king consulted with Aaron and many of their priests, concerning
the name that they should take upon them, that they might be
distinguished.

Alma 23:17
 17 And it came to pass that they called their names
Anti-Nephi-Lehies; and they were called by this name and were no
more called Lamanites.

Alma 23:18
 18 And they began to be a very industrious people; yea, and they
were friendly with the Nephites; therefore, they did open a
correspondence with them, and the curse of God did no more follow
them.

Alma 24
Chapter 24

Alma 24:1
 1 And it came to pass that the Amalekites and the Amulonites and
the Lamanites who were in the land of Amulon, and also in the
land of Helam, and who were in the land of Jerusalem, and in
fine, in all the land round about, who had not been converted and
had not taken upon them the name of Anti-Nephi-Lehi, were stirred
up by the Amalekites and by the Amulonites to anger against their
brethren.

Alma 24:2
 2 And their hatred became exceedingly sore against them, even
insomuch that they began to rebel against their king, insomuch
that they would not that he should be their king; therefore, they
took up arms against the people of Anti-Nephi-Lehi.

Alma 24:3
 3 Now the king conferred the kingdom upon his son, and he called
his name Anti-Nephi-Lehi.

Alma 24:4
 4 And the king died in that selfsame year that the Lamanites
began to make preparations for war against the people of God.

Alma 24:5
 5 Now when Ammon and his brethren and all those who had come up
with him saw the preparations of the Lamanites to destroy their
brethren, they came forth to the land of Midian, and there Ammon
met all his brethren; and from thence they came to the land of
Ishmael that they might hold a council with Lamoni and also with
his brother Anti-Nephi-Lehi, what they should do to defend
themselves against the Lamanites.

Alma 24:6
 6 Now there was not one soul among all the people who had been
converted unto the Lord that would take up arms against their
brethren; nay, they would not even make any preparations for war;
yea, and also their king commanded them that they should not.

Alma 24:7
 7 Now, these are the words which he said unto the people
concerning the matter:



Alma 24:17
 17 And now it came to pass that when the king had made an end of
these sayings, and all the people were assembled together, they
took their swords, and all the weapons which were used for the
shedding of man's blood, and they did bury them up deep in the
earth.
Alma 24:18
 18 And this they did, it being in their view a testimony to God,
and also to men, that they never would use weapons again for the
shedding of man's blood; and this they did, vouching and
covenanting with God, that rather than shed the blood of their
brethren they would give up their own lives; and rather than take
away from a brother they would give unto him; and rather than
spend their days in idleness they would labor abundantly with
their hands.

Alma 24:19
 19 And thus we see that, when these Lamanites were brought to
believe and to know the truth, they were firm, and would suffer
even unto death rather than commit sin; and thus we see that they
buried their weapons of peace, or they buried the weapons of war,
for peace.

Alma 24:20
 20 And it came to pass that their brethren, the Lamanites, made
preparations for war, and came up to the land of Nephi for the
purpose of destroying the king, and to place another in his
stead, and also of destroying the people of Anti-Nephi-Lehi out
of the land.

Alma 24:21
 21 Now when the people saw that they were coming against them
they went out to meet them, and prostrated themselves before them
to the earth, and began to call on the name of the Lord; and thus
they were in this attitude when the Lamanites began to fall upon
them, and began to slay them with the sword.

Alma 24:22
 22 And thus without meeting any resistance, they did slay a
thousand and five of them; and we know that they are blessed, for
they have gone to dwell with their God.

Alma 24:23
 23 Now when the Lamanites saw that their brethren would not flee
from the sword, neither would they turn aside to the right hand
or to the left, but that they would lie down and perish, and
praised God even in the very act of perishing under the sword--

Alma 24:24
 24 Now when the Lamanites saw this they did forbear from slaying
them; and there were many whose hearts had swollen in them for
those of their brethren who had fallen under the sword, for they
repented of the things which they had done.

Alma 24:25
 25 And it came to pass that they threw down their weapons of
war, and they would not take them again, for they were stung for
the murders which they had committed; and they came down even as
their brethren, relying upon the mercies of those whose arms were
lifted to slay them.

Alma 24:26
 26 And it came to pass that the people of God were joined that
day by more than the number who had been slain; and those who had
been slain were righteous people, therefore we have no reason to
doubt but what they were saved.

Alma 24:27
 27 And there was not a wicked man slain among them; but there
were more than a thousand brought to the knowledge of the truth;
thus we see that the Lord worketh in many ways to the salvation
of his people.

Alma 24:28
 28 Now the greatest number of those of the Lamanites who slew so
many of their brethren were Amalekites and Amulonites, the
greatest number of whom were after the order of the Nehors.

Alma 24:29
 29 Now, among those who joined the people of the Lord, there
were none who were Amalekites or Amulonites, or who were of the
order of Nehor, but they were actual descendants of Laman and
Lemuel.

Alma 24:30
 30 And thus we can plainly discern, that after a people have
been once enlightened by the Spirit of God, and have had great
knowledge of things pertaining to righteousness, and then have
fallen away into sin and transgression, they become more
hardened, and thus their state becomes worse than though they had
never known these things.

Alma 25
Chapter 25

Alma 25:1
 1 And behold, now it came to pass that those Lamanites were more
angry because they had slain their brethren; therefore they swore
vengeance upon the Nephites; and they did no more attempt to slay
the people of Anti-Nephi-Lehi at that time.

Alma 25:2
 2 But they took their armies and went over into the borders of
the land of Zarahemla, and fell upon the people who were in the
land of Ammonihah, and destroyed them.


Alma 25:3
 3 And after that, they had many battles with the Nephites, in
the which they were driven and slain.

Alma 25:4
 4 And among the Lamanites who were slain were almost all the
seed of Amulon and his brethren, who were the priests of Noah,
and they were slain by the hands of the Nephites;

Alma 25:5
 5 And the remainder, having fled into the east wilderness, and
having usurped the power and authority over the Lamanites, caused
that many of the Lamanites should perish by fire because of their
belief--

Alma 25:6
 6 For many of them, after having suffered much loss and so many
afflictions, began to be stirred up in remembrance of the words
which Aaron and his brethren had preached to them in their land;
therefore they began to disbelieve the traditions of their
fathers, and to believe in the Lord, and that he gave great power
unto the Nephites; and thus there were many of them converted in
the wilderness.

Alma 25:7
 7 And it came to pass that those rulers who were the remnant of
the children of Amulon caused that they should be put to death,
yea, all those that believed in these things.

Alma 25:8
 8 Now this martyrdom caused that many of their brethren should
be stirred up to anger; and there began to be contention in the
wilderness; and the Lamanites began to hunt the seed of Amulon
and his brethren and began to slay them; and they fled into the
east wilderness.

Alma 25:9
 9 And behold they are hunted at this day by the Lamanites.  Thus
the words of Abinadi were brought to pass, which he said
concerning the seed of the priests who caused that he should
suffer death by fire.

Alma 25:10
 10 For he said unto them: What ye shall do unto me shall be a
type of things to come.

Alma 25:11
 11 And now Abinadi was the first that suffered death by fire
because of his belief in God; now this is what he meant, that
many should suffer death by fire, according as he had suffered.

Alma 25:12
 12 And he said unto the priests of Noah that their seed should
cause many to be put to death, in the like manner as he was, and
that they should be scattered abroad and slain, even as a sheep
having no shepherd is driven and slain by wild beasts; and now
behold, these words were verified, for they were driven by the
Lamanites, and they were hunted, and they were smitten.

Alma 25:13
 13 And it came to pass that when the Lamanites saw that they
could not overpower the Nephites they returned again to their own
land; and many of them came over to dwell in the land of Ishmael
and the land of Nephi, and did join themselves to the people of
God, who were the people of Anti-Nephi-Lehi.

Alma 25:14
 14 And they did also bury their weapons of war, according as
their brethren had, and they began to be a righteous people; and
they did walk in the ways of the Lord, and did observe to keep
his commandments and his statutes.

Alma 25:15
 15 Yea, and they did keep the law of Moses; for it was expedient
that they should keep the law of Moses as yet, for it was not all
fulfilled.  But notwithstanding the law of Moses, they did look
forward to the coming of Christ, considering that the law of
Moses was a type of his coming, and believing that they must keep
those outward performances until the time that he should be
revealed unto them.

Alma 25:16
 16 Now they did not suppose that salvation came by the law of
Moses; but the law of Moses did serve to strengthen their faith
in Christ; and thus they did retain a hope through faith, unto
eternal salvation, relying upon the spirit of prophecy, which
spake of those things to come.

Alma 25:17
 17 And now behold, Ammon, and Aaron, and Omner, and Himni, and
their brethren did rejoice exceedingly, for the success which
they had had among the Lamanites, seeing that the Lord had
granted unto them according to their prayers, and that he had
also verified his word unto them in every particular.



Alma 26
Chapter 26

Alma 26:1
 1 And now, these are the words of Ammon to his brethren, which
say thus: 


Alma 26:10
 10 And it came to pass that when Ammon had said these words, his
brother Aaron rebuked him, saying: 



Alma 26:11
 11 But Ammon said unto him: 


Alma 27
Chapter 27

Alma 27:1
 1 Now it came to pass that when those Lamanites who had gone to
war against the Nephites had found, after their many struggles to
destroy them, that it was in vain to seek their destruction, they
returned again to the land of Nephi.

Alma 27:2
 2 And it came to pass that the Amalekites, because of their
loss, were exceedingly angry.  And when they saw that they could
not seek revenge from the Nephites, they began to stir up the
people in anger against their brethren, the people of
Anti-Nephi-Lehi; therefore they began again to destroy them.

Alma 27:3
 3 Now this people again refused to take their arms, and they
suffered themselves to be slain according to the desires of their
enemies.

Alma 27:4
 4 Now when Ammon and his brethren saw this work of destruction
among those whom they so dearly beloved, and among those who had
so dearly beloved them--for they were treated as though they were
angels sent from God to save them from everlasting
destruction--therefore, when Ammon and his brethren saw this
great work of destruction, they were moved with compassion, and
they said unto the king:


Alma 27:5
 5 Let us gather together this people of the Lord, and let us go
down to the land of Zarahemla to our brethren the Nephites, and
flee out of the hands of our enemies, that we be not destroyed.

Alma 27:6
 6 But the king said unto them: 



Alma 27:7
 7 And Ammon said: 


Alma 27:8
 8 And the king said unto him:



Alma 27:9
 9 But Ammon said unto him:



Alma 27:10
 10 But the king said unto him: 



Alma 27:11
 11 And it came to pass that Ammon went and inquired of the Lord,
and the Lord said unto him:


Alma 27:13
 13 And now it came to pass that Ammon went and told the king all
the words which the Lord had said unto him.

Alma 27:14
 14 And they gathered together all their people, yea, all the
people of the Lord, and did gather together all their flocks and
herds, and departed out of the land, and came into the wilderness
which divided the land of Nephi from the land of Zarahemla, and
came over near the borders of the land.

Alma 27:15
 15 And it came to pass that Ammon said unto them: 


Alma 27:16
 16 And it came to pass that as Ammon was going forth into the
land, that he and his brethren met Alma, over in the place of
which has been spoken; and behold, this was a joyful meeting.

Alma 27:17
 17 Now the joy of Ammon was so great even that he was full; yea,
he was swallowed up in the joy of his God, even to the exhausting
of his strength; and he fell again to the earth.

Alma 27:18
 18 Now was not this exceeding joy?  Behold, this is joy which
none receiveth save it be the truly penitent and humble seeker of
happiness.

Alma 27:19
 19 Now the joy of Alma in meeting his brethren was truly great,
and also the joy of Aaron, of Omner, and Himni; but behold their
joy was not that to exceed their strength.

Alma 27:20
 20 And now it came to pass that Alma conducted his brethren back
to the land of Zarahemla; even to his own house.  And they went
and told the chief judge all the things that had happened unto
them in the land of Nephi, among their brethren, the Lamanites.

Alma 27:21
 21 And it came to pass that the chief judge sent a proclamation
throughout all the land, desiring the voice of the people
concerning the admitting their brethren, who were the people of
Anti-Nephi-Lehi.

Alma 27:22
 22 And it came to pass that the voice of the people came,
saying: Behold, we will give up the land of Jershon, which is on
the east by the sea, which joins the land Bountiful, which is on
the south of the land Bountiful; and this land Jershon is the
land which we will give unto our brethren for an inheritance.

Alma 27:23
 23 And behold, we will set our armies between the land Jershon
and the land Nephi, that we may protect our brethren in the land
Jershon; and this we do for our brethren, on account of their
fear to take up arms against their brethren lest they should
commit sin; and this their great fear came because of their sore
repentance which they had, on account of their many murders and
their awful wickedness.

Alma 27:24
 24 And now behold, this will we do unto our brethren, that they
may inherit the land Jershon; and we will guard them from their
enemies with our armies, on condition that they will give us a
portion of their substance to assist us that we may maintain our
armies.

Alma 27:25
 25 Now, it came to pass that when Ammon had heard this, he
returned to the people of Anti-Nephi-Lehi, and also Alma with
him, into the wilderness, where they had pitched their tents, and
made known unto them all these things.  And Alma also related
unto them his conversion, with Ammon and Aaron, and his brethren.

Alma 27:26
 26 And it came to pass that it did cause great joy among them. 
And they went down into the land of Jershon, and took possession
of the land of Jershon; and they were called by the Nephites the
people of Ammon; therefore they were distinguished by that name
ever after.

Alma 27:27
 27 And they were among the people of Nephi, and also numbered
among the people who were of the church of God.  And they were
also distinguished for their zeal towards God, and also towards
men; for they were perfectly honest and upright in all things;
and they were firm in the faith of Christ, even unto the end.

Alma 27:28
 28 And they did look upon shedding the blood of their brethren
with the greatest abhorrence; and they never could be prevailed
upon to take up arms against their brethren; and they never did
look upon death with any degree of terror, for their hope and
views of Christ and the resurrection; therefore, death was
swallowed up to them by the victory of Christ over it.

Alma 27:29
 29 Therefore, they would suffer death in the most aggravating
and distressing manner which could be inflicted by their
brethren, before they would take the sword or cimeter to smite
them.

Alma 27:30
 30 And thus they were a zealous and beloved people, a highly
favored people of the Lord.


Alma 28
Chapter 28

Alma 28:1
 1 And now it came to pass that after the people of Ammon were
established in the land of Jershon, and a church also established
in the land of Jershon, and the armies of the Nephites were set
round about the land of Jershon, yea, in all the borders round
about the land of Zarahemla; behold the armies of the Lamanites
had followed their brethren into the wilderness.

Alma 28:2
 2 And thus there was a tremendous battle; yea, even such an one
as never had been known among all the people in the land from the
time Lehi left Jerusalem; yea, and tens of thousands of the
Lamanites were slain and scattered abroad.

Alma 28:3
 3 Yea, and also there was a tremendous slaughter among the
people of Nephi; nevertheless, the Lamanites were driven and
scattered, and the people of Nephi returned again to their land.

Alma 28:4
 4 And now this was a time that there was a great mourning and
lamentation heard throughout all the land, among all the people
of Nephi--

Alma 28:5
 5 Yea, the cry of widows mourning for their husbands, and also
of fathers mourning for their sons, and the daughter for the
brother, yea, the brother for the father; and thus the cry of
mourning was heard among all of them, mourning for their kindred
who had been slain.

Alma 28:6
 6 And now surely this was a sorrowful day; yea, a time of
solemnity, and a time of much fasting and prayer.

Alma 28:7
 7 And thus endeth the fifteenth year of the reign of the judges
over the people of Nephi;

Alma 28:8
 8 And this is the account of Ammon and his brethren, their
journeyings in the land of Nephi, their sufferings in the land,
their sorrows, and their afflictions, and their incomprehensible
joy, and the reception and safety of the brethren in the land of
Jershon.  And now may the Lord, the Redeemer of all men, bless
their souls forever.

Alma 28:9
 9 And this is the account of the wars and contentions among the
Nephites, and also the wars between the Nephites and the
Lamanites; and the fifteenth year of the reign of the judges is
ended.

Alma 28:10
 10 And from the first year to the fifteenth has brought to pass
the destruction of many thousand lives; yea, it has brought to
pass an awful scene of bloodshed.

Alma 28:11
 11 And the bodies of many thousands are laid low in the earth,
while the bodies of many thousands are moldering in heaps upon
the face of the earth; yea, and many thousands are mourning for
the loss of their kindred, because they have reason to fear,
according to the promises of the Lord, that they are consigned to
a state of endless wo.

Alma 28:12
 12 While many thousands of others truly mourn for the loss of
their kindred, yet they rejoice and exult in the hope, and even
know, according to the promises of the Lord, that they are raised
to dwell at the right hand of God, in a state of never-ending
happiness.

Alma 28:13
 13 And thus we see how great the inequality of man is because of
sin and transgression, and the power of the devil, which comes by
the cunning plans which he hath devised to ensnare the hearts of
men.

Alma 28:14
 14 And thus we see the great call of diligence of men to labor
in the vineyards of the Lord; and thus we see the great reason of
sorrow, and also of rejoicing--sorrow because of death and
destruction among men, and joy because of the light of Christ
unto life.


Alma 30
Chapter 30

Alma 30:1
 1 Behold, now it came to pass that after the people of Ammon
were established in the land of Jershon, yea, and also after the
Lamanites were driven out of the land, and their dead were buried
by the people of the land--

Alma 30:2
 2 Now their dead were not numbered because of the greatness of
their numbers; neither were the dead of the Nephites
numbered--but it came to pass after they had buried their dead,
and also after the days of fasting, and mourning, and prayer,
(and it was in the sixteenth year of the reign of the judges over
the people of Nephi) there began to be continual peace throughout
all the land.

Alma 30:3
 3 Yea, and the people did observe to keep the commandments of
the Lord; and they were strict in observing the ordinances of
God, according to the law of Moses; for they were taught to keep
the law of Moses until it should be fulfilled.

Alma 30:4
 4 And thus the people did have no disturbance in all the
sixteenth year of the reign of the judges over the people of
Nephi.

Alma 30:5
 5 And it came to pass that in the commencement of the
seventeenth year of the reign of the judges, there was continual
peace.

Alma 30:6
 6 But it came to pass in the latter end of the seventeenth year,
there came a man into the land of Zarahemla, and he was
Anti-Christ, for he began to preach unto the people against the
prophecies which had been spoken by the prophets, concerning the
coming of Christ.

Alma 30:7
 7 Now there was no law against a man's belief; for it was
strictly contrary to the commands of God that there should be a
law which should bring men on to unequal grounds.

Alma 30:8
 8 For thus saith the scripture: Choose ye this day, whom ye will
serve.

Alma 30:9
 9 Now if a man desired to serve God, it was his privilege; or
rather, if he believed in God it was his privilege to serve him;
but if he did not believe in him there was no law to punish him.

Alma 30:10
 10 But if he murdered he was punished unto death; and if he
robbed he was also punished; and if he stole he was also
punished; and if he committed adultery he was also punished; yea,
for all this wickedness they were punished.

Alma 30:11
 11 For there was a law that men should be judged according to
their crimes.  Nevertheless, there was no law against a man's
belief; therefore, a man was punished only for the crimes which
he had done; therefore all men were on equal grounds.

Alma 30:12
 12 And this Anti-Christ, whose name was Korihor, (and the law
could have no hold upon him) began to preach unto the people that
there should be no Christ.  And after this manner did he preach,
saying:


Alma 30:17
 17 And many more such things did he say unto them, telling them
that there could be no atonement made for the sins of men, but
every man fared in this life according to the management of the
creature; therefore every man prospered according to his genius,
and that every man conquered according to his strength; and
whatsoever a man did was no crime.

Alma 30:18
 18 And thus he did preach unto them, leading away the hearts of
many, causing them to lift up their heads in their wickedness,
yea, leading away many women, and also men, to commit
whoredoms--telling them that when a man was dead, that was the
end thereof.

Alma 30:19
 19 Now this man went over to the land of Jershon also, to preach
these things among the people of Ammon, who were once the people
of the Lamanites.

Alma 30:20
 20 But behold they were more wise than many of the Nephites; for
they took him, and bound him, and carried him before Ammon, who
was a high priest over that people.

Alma 30:21
 21 And it came to pass that he caused that he should be carried
out of the land.  And he came over into the land of Gideon, and
began to preach unto them also; and here he did not have much
success, for he was taken and bound and carried before the high
priest, and also the chief judge over the land.

Alma 30:22
 22 And it came to pass that the high priest said unto him:



Alma 30:23
 23 Now the high priest's name was Giddonah.  And Korihor said
unto him:



Alma 30:29
 29 Now when the high priest and the chief judge saw the hardness
of his heart, yea, when they saw that he would revile even
against God, they would not make any reply to his words; but they
caused that he should be bound; and they delivered him up into
the hands of the officers, and sent him to the land of Zarahemla,
that he might be brought before Alma, and the chief judge who was
governor over all the land.

Alma 30:30
 30 And it came to pass that when he was brought before Alma and
the chief judge, he did go on in the same manner as he did in the
land of Gideon; yea, he went on to blaspheme.

Alma 30:31
 31 And he did rise up in great swelling words before Alma, and
did revile against the priests and teachers, accusing them of
leading away the people after the silly traditions of their
fathers, for the sake of glutting on the labors of the people.

Alma 30:32
 32 Now Alma said unto him: 



Alma 30:36
 36 And Korihor answered him, Yea.

Alma 30:37
 37 And then Alma said unto him:




Alma 30:38
 38 And he answered, Nay.

Alma 30:39
 39 Now Alma said unto him:



Alma 30:43
 43 And now Korihor said unto Alma: 


Alma 30:44
 44 But Alma said unto him:

And he said:

Alma 30:46
 46 And now it came to pass that Alma said unto him: 


Alma 30:48
 48 Now Korihor said unto him:


Alma 30:49
 49 Now Alma said unto him: 


Alma 30:50
 50 Now when Alma had said these words, Korihor was struck dumb,
that he could not have utterance, according to the words of Alma.

Alma 30:51
 51 And now when the chief judge saw this, he put forth his hand
and wrote unto Korihor, saying:



Alma 30:52
 52 And Korihor put forth his hand and wrote, saying:


Alma 30:54
 54 Now when he had said this, he besought that Alma should pray
unto God, that the curse might be taken from him.

Alma 30:55
 55 But Alma said unto him:


Alma 30:56
 56 And it came to pass that the curse was not taken off of
Korihor; but he was cast out, and went about from house to house
begging for his food.

Alma 30:57
 57 Now the knowledge of what had happened unto Korihor was
immediately published throughout all the land; yea, the
proclamation was sent forth by the chief judge to all the people
in the land, declaring unto those who had believed in the words
of Korihor that they must speedily repent, lest the same
judgments would come unto them.

Alma 30:58
 58 And it came to pass that they were all convinced of the
wickedness of Korihor; therefore they were all converted again
unto the Lord; and this put an end to the iniquity after the
manner of Korihor.  And Korihor did go about from house to house,
begging food for his support.

Alma 30:59
 59 And it came to pass that as he went forth among the people,
yea, among a people who had separated themselves from the
Nephites and called themselves Zoramites, being led by a man
whose name was Zoram--and as he went forth amongst them, behold,
he was run upon and trodden down, even until he was dead.

Alma 30:60
 60 And thus we see the end of him who perverteth the ways of the
Lord; and thus we see that the devil will not support his
children at the last day, but doth speedily drag them down to
hell.


Alma 31
Chapter 31

Alma 31:1
 1 Now it came to pass that after the end of Korihor, Alma having
received tidings that the Zoramites were perverting the ways of
the Lord, and that Zoram, who was their leader, was leading the
hearts of the people to bow down to dumb idols, his heart again
began to sicken because of the iniquity of the people.

Alma 31:2
 2 For it was the cause of great sorrow to Alma to know of
iniquity among his people; therefore his heart was exceedingly
sorrowful because of the separation of the Zoramites from the
Nephites.

Alma 31:3
 3 Now the Zoramites had gathered themselves together in a land
which they called Antionum, which was east of the land of
Zarahemla, which lay nearly bordering upon the seashore, which
was south of the land of Jershon, which also bordered upon the
wilderness south, which wilderness was full of the Lamanites.

Alma 31:4
 4 Now the Nephites greatly feared that the Zoramites would enter
into a correspondence with the Lamanites, and that it would be
the means of great loss on the part of the Nephites.

Alma 31:5
 5 And now, as the preaching of the word had a great tendency to
lead the people to do that which was just--yea, it had had more
powerful effect upon the minds of the people than the sword, or
anything else, which had happened unto them--therefore Alma
thought it was expedient that they should try the virtue of the
word of God.

Alma 31:6
 6 Therefore he took Ammon, and Aaron, and Omner; and Himni he
did leave in the church in Zarahemla; but the former three he
took with him, and also Amulek and Zeezrom, who were at Melek;
and he also took two of his sons.

Alma 31:7
 7 Now the eldest of his sons he took not with him, and his name
was Helaman; but the names of those whom he took with him were
Shiblon and Corianton; and these are the names of those who went
with him among the Zoramites, to preach unto them the word.

Alma 31:8
 8 Now the Zoramites were dissenters from the Nephites; therefore
they had had the word of God preached unto them.

Alma 31:9
 9 But they had fallen into great errors, for they would not
observe to keep the commandments of God, and his statutes,
according to the law of Moses.

Alma 31:10
 10 Neither would they observe the performances of the church, to
continue in prayer and supplication to God daily, that they might
not enter into temptation.

Alma 31:11
 11 Yea, in fine, they did pervert the ways of the Lord in very
many instances; therefore, for this cause, Alma and his brethren
went into the land to preach the word unto them.

Alma 31:12
 12 Now, when they had come into the land, behold, to their
astonishment they found that the Zoramites had built synagogues,
and that they did gather themselves together on one day of the
week, which day they did call the day of the Lord; and they did
worship after a manner which Alma and his brethren had never
beheld;

Alma 31:13
 13 For they had a place built up in the center of their
synagogue, a place for standing, which was high above the head,
and the top thereof would only admit one person.

Alma 31:14
 14 Therefore, whosoever desired to worship must go forth and
stand upon the top thereof, and stretch forth his hands towards
heaven, and cry with a loud voice, saying:

Alma 31:15
 15 Holy, holy God; we believe that thou art God, and we believe
that thou art holy, and that thou wast a spirit, and that thou
art a spirit, and that thou wilt be a spirit forever.

Alma 31:16
 16 Holy God, we believe that thou hast separated us from our
brethren; and we do not believe in the tradition of our brethren,
which was handed down to them by the childishness of their
fathers; but we believe that thou hast elected us to be thy holy
children; and also thou hast made it known unto us that there
shall be no Christ.

Alma 31:17
 17 But thou art the same yesterday, today, and forever; and thou
hast elected us that we shall be saved, whilst all around us are
elected to be cast by thy wrath down to hell; for the which
holiness, O God, we thank thee; and we also thank thee that thou
hast elected us, that we may not be led away after the foolish
traditions of our brethren, which doth bind them down to a belief
of Christ, which doth lead their hearts to wander far from thee,
our God.

Alma 31:18
 18 And again we thank thee, O God, that we are a chosen and a
holy people.  Amen.

Alma 31:19
 19 Now it came to pass that after Alma and his brethren and his
sons had heard these prayers, they were astonished beyond all
measure.

Alma 31:20
 20 For behold, every man did go forth and offer up these same
prayers.

Alma 31:21
 21 Now the place was called by them Rameumptom, which, being
interpreted, is the holy stand.

Alma 31:22
 22 Now, from this stand they did offer up, every man, the
selfsame prayer unto God, thanking their God that they were
chosen of him, and that he did not lead them away after the
tradition of their brethren, and that their hearts were not
stolen away to believe in things to come, which they knew nothing
about.

Alma 31:23
 23 Now, after the people had all offered up thanks after this
manner, they returned to their homes, never speaking of their God
again until they had assembled themselves together again to the
holy stand, to offer up thanks after their manner.

Alma 31:24
 24 Now when Alma saw this his heart was grieved; for he saw that
they were a wicked and a perverse people; yea, he saw that their
hearts were set upon gold, and upon silver, and upon all manner
of fine goods.

Alma 31:25
 25 Yea, and he also saw that their hearts were lifted up unto
great boasting, in their pride.

Alma 31:26
 26 And he lifted up his voice to heaven, and cried, saying: 


Alma 31:36
 36 Now it came to pass that when Alma had said these words, that
he clapped his hands upon all them who were with him.  And
behold, as he clapped his hands upon them, they were filled with
the Holy Spirit.

Alma 31:37
 37 And after that they did separate themselves one from another,
taking no thought for themselves what they should eat, or what
they should drink, or what they should put on.

Alma 31:38
 38 And the Lord provided for them that they should hunger not,
neither should they thirst; yea, and he also gave them strength,
that they should suffer no manner of afflictions, save it were
swallowed up in the joy of Christ.  Now this was according to the
prayer of Alma; and this because he prayed in faith.


Alma 32
Chapter 32

Alma 32:1
 1 And it came to pass that they did go forth, and began to
preach the word of God unto the people, entering into their
synagogues, and into their houses; yea, and even they did preach
the word in their streets.

Alma 32:2
 2 And it came to pass that after much labor among them, they
began to have success among the poor class of people; for behold,
they were cast out of the synagogues because of the coarseness of
their apparel--

Alma 32:3
 3 Therefore they were not permitted to enter into their
synagogues to worship God, being esteemed as filthiness;
therefore they were poor; yea, they were esteemed by their
brethren as dross; therefore they were poor as to things of the
world; and also they were poor in heart.

Alma 32:4
 4 Now, as Alma was teaching and speaking unto the people upon
the hill Onidah, there came a great multitude unto him, who were
those of whom we have been speaking, of whom were poor in heart,
because of their poverty as to the things of the world.

Alma 32:5
 5 And they came unto Alma; and the one who was the foremost
among them said unto him: Behold, what shall these my brethren
do, for they are despised of all men because of their poverty,
yea, and more especially by our priests; for they have cast us
out of our synagogues which we have labored abundantly to build
with our own hands; and they have cast us out because of our
exceeding poverty; and we have no place to worship our God; and
behold, what shall we do?

Alma 32:6
 6 And now when Alma heard this, he turned him about, his face
immediately towards him, and he beheld with great joy; for he
beheld that their afflictions had truly humbled them and that
they were in a preparation to hear the word.

Alma 32:7
 7 Therefore he did say no more to the other multitude; but he
stretched forth his hand, and cried unto those whom he beheld,
who were truly penitent, and said unto them:


Alma 33
Chapter 33

Alma 33:1
 1 Now after Alma had spoken these words, they sent forth unto
him desiring to know whether they should believe in one God, that
they might obtain this fruit of which he had spoken, or how they
should plant the seed, or the word of which he had spoken, which
he said must be planted in their hearts; or in what manner they
should begin to exercise their faith.

Alma 33:2
 2 And Alma said unto them:

Behold, ye have said that ye could
not worship your God because ye are cast out of your synagogues. 
But behold, I say unto you, if ye suppose that ye cannot worship
God, ye do greatly err, and ye ought to search the scriptures; if
ye suppose that they have taught you this, ye do not understand
them.

Alma 33:3
 3 Do ye remember to have read what Zenos, the prophet of old,
has said concerning prayer or worship?

Alma 33:4
 4 For he said: 


Alma 33:12
 12 And now Alma said unto them:




Alma 34
Chapter 34

Alma 34:1
 1 And now it came to pass that after Alma had spoken these words
unto them he sat down upon the ground, and Amulek arose and began
to teach them, saying:



Alma 35
Chapter 35

Alma 35:1
 1 Now it came to pass that after Amulek had made an end of these
words, they withdrew themselves from the multitude and came over
into the land of Jershon.

Alma 35:2
 2 Yea, and the rest of the brethren, after they had preached the
word unto the Zoramites, also came over into the land of Jershon.

Alma 35:3
 3 And it came to pass that after the more popular part of the
Zoramites had consulted together concerning the words which had
been preached unto them, they were angry because of the word, for
it did destroy their craft; therefore they would not hearken unto
the words.

Alma 35:4
 4 And they sent and gathered together throughout all the land
all the people, and consulted with them concerning the words
which had been spoken.

Alma 35:5
 5 Now their rulers and their priests and their teachers did not
let the people know concerning their desires; therefore they
found out privily the minds of all the people.

Alma 35:6
 6 And it came to pass that after they had found out the minds of
all the people, those who were in favor of the words which had
been spoken by Alma and his brethren were cast out of the land;
and they were many; and they came over also into the land of
Jershon.

Alma 35:7
 7 And it came to pass that Alma and his brethren did minister
unto them.

Alma 35:8
 8 Now the people of the Zoramites were angry with the people of
Ammon who were in Jershon, and the chief ruler of the Zoramites,
being a very wicked man, sent over unto the people of Ammon
desiring them that they should cast out of their land all those
who came over from them into their land.

Alma 35:9
 9 And he breathed out many threatenings against them.  And now
the people of Ammon did not fear their words; therefore they did
not cast them out, but they did receive all the poor of the
Zoramites that came over unto them; and they did nourish them,
and did clothe them, and did give unto them lands for their
inheritance; and they did administer unto them according to their
wants.

Alma 35:10
 10 Now this did stir up the Zoramites to anger against the
people of Ammon, and they began to mix with the Lamanites and to
stir them up also to anger against them.

Alma 35:11
 11 And thus the Zoramites and the Lamanites began to make
preparations for war against the people of Ammon, and also
against the Nephites.

Alma 35:12
 12 And thus ended the seventeenth year of the reign of the
judges over the people of Nephi.

Alma 35:13
 13 And the people of Ammon departed out of the land of Jershon,
and came over into the land of Melek, and gave place in the land
of Jershon for the armies of the Nephites, that they might
contend with the armies of the Lamanites and the armies of the
Zoramites; and thus commenced a war betwixt the Lamanites and the
Nephites, in the eighteenth year of the reign of the judges; and
an account shall be given of their wars hereafter.

Alma 35:14
 14 And Alma, and Ammon, and their brethren, and also the two
sons of Alma returned to the land of Zarahemla, after having been
instruments in the hands of God of bringing many of the Zoramites
to repentance; and as many as were brought to repentance were
driven out of their land; but they have lands for their
inheritance in the land of Jershon, and they have taken up arms
to defend themselves, and their wives, and children, and their
lands.

Alma 35:15
 15 Now Alma, being grieved for the iniquity of his people, yea
for the wars, and the bloodsheds, and the contentions which were
among them; and having been to declare the word, or sent to
declare the word, among all the people in every city; and seeing
that the hearts of the people began to wax hard, and that they
began to be offended because of the strictness of the word, his
heart was exceedingly sorrowful.

Alma 35:16
 16 Therefore, he caused that his sons should be gathered
together, that he might give unto them every one his charge,
separately, concerning the things pertaining unto righteousness. 
And we have an account of his commandments, which he gave unto
them according to his own record.


Alma 43
Chapter 43

Alma 43:1
 1 And now it came to pass that the sons of Alma did go forth
among the people, to declare the word unto them.  And Alma, also,
himself, could not rest, and he also went forth.

Alma 43:2
 2 Now we shall say no more concerning their preaching, except
that they preached the word, and the truth, according to the
spirit of prophecy and revelation; and they preached after the
holy order of God by which they were called.

Alma 43:3
 3 And now I return to an account of the wars between the
Nephites and the Lamanites, in the eighteenth year of the reign
of the judges.

Alma 43:4
 4 For behold, it came to pass that the Zoramites became
Lamanites; therefore, in the commencement of the eighteenth year
the people of the Nephites saw that the Lamanites were coming
upon them; therefore they made preparations for war; yea, they
gathered together their armies in the land of Jershon.

Alma 43:5
 5 And it came to pass that the Lamanites came with their
thousands; and they came into the land of Antionum, which is the
land of the Zoramites; and a man by the name of Zerahemnah was
their leader.

Alma 43:6
 6 And now, as the Amalekites were of a more wicked and murderous
disposition than the Lamanites were, in and of themselves,
therefore, Zerahemnah appointed chief captains over the
Lamanites, and they were all Amalekites and Zoramites.

Alma 43:7
 7 Now this he did that he might preserve their hatred towards
the Nephites, that he might bring them into subjection to the
accomplishment of his designs.

Alma 43:8
 8 For behold, his designs were to stir up the Lamanites to anger
against the Nephites; this he did that he might usurp great power
over them, and also that he might gain power over the Nephites by
bringing them into bondage.

Alma 43:9
 9 And now the design of the Nephites was to support their lands,
and their houses, and their wives, and their children, that they
might preserve them from the hands of their enemies; and also
that they might preserve their rights and their privileges, yea,
and also their liberty, that they might worship God according to
their desires.

Alma 43:10
 10 For they knew that if they should fall into the hands of the
Lamanites, that whosoever should worship God in spirit and in
truth, the true and the living God, the Lamanites would destroy.

Alma 43:11
 11 Yea, and they also knew the extreme hatred of the Lamanites
towards their brethren, who were the people of Anti-Nephi-Lehi,
who were called the people of Ammon--and they would not take up
arms, yea, they had entered into a covenant and they would not
break it--therefore, if they should fall into the hands of the
Lamanites they would be destroyed.

Alma 43:12
 12 And the Nephites would not suffer that they should be
destroyed; therefore they gave them lands for their inheritance.

Alma 43:13
 13 And the people of Ammon did give unto the Nephites a large
portion of their substance to support their armies; and thus the
Nephites were compelled, alone, to withstand against the
Lamanites, who were a compound of Laman and Lemuel, and the sons
of Ishmael, and all those who had dissented from the Nephites,
who were Amalekites and Zoramites, and the descendants of the
priests of Noah.

Alma 43:14
 14 Now those descendants were as numerous, nearly, as were the
Nephites; and thus the Nephites were obliged to contend with
their brethren, even unto bloodshed.

Alma 43:15
 15 And it came to pass as the armies of the Lamanites had
gathered together in the land of Antionum, behold, the armies of
the Nephites were prepared to meet them in the land of Jershon.

Alma 43:16
 16 Now, the leader of the Nephites, or the man who had been
appointed to be the chief captain over the Nephites--now the
chief captain took the command of all the armies of the
Nephites--and his name was Moroni;

Alma 43:17
 17 And Moroni took all the command, and the government of their
wars.  And he was only twenty and five years old when he was
appointed chief captain over the armies of the Nephites.

Alma 43:18
 18 And it came to pass that he met the Lamanites in the borders
of Jershon, and his people were armed with swords, and with
cimeters, and all manner of weapons of war.

Alma 43:19
 19 And when the armies of the Lamanites saw that the people of
Nephi, or that Moroni, had prepared his people with breastplates
and with arm-shields, yea, and also shields to defend their
heads, and also they were dressed with thick clothing--

Alma 43:20
 20 Now the army of Zerahemnah was not prepared with any such
thing; they had only their swords and their cimeters, their bows
and their arrows, their stones and their slings; and they were
naked, save it were a skin which was girded about their loins;
yea, all were naked, save it were the Zoramites and the
Amalekites;

Alma 43:21
 21 But they were not armed with breastplates, nor
shields--therefore, they were exceedingly afraid of the armies of
the Nephites because of their armor, notwithstanding their number
being so much greater than the Nephites.

Alma 43:22
 22 Behold, now it came to pass that they durst not come against
the Nephites in the borders of Jershon; therefore they departed
out of the land of Antionum into the wilderness, and took their
journey round about in the wilderness, away by the head of the
river Sidon, that they might come into the land of Manti and take
possession of the land; for they did not suppose that the armies
of Moroni would know whither they had gone.

Alma 43:23
 23 But it came to pass, as soon as they had departed into the
wilderness Moroni sent spies into the wilderness to watch their
camp; and Moroni, also, knowing of the prophecies of Alma, sent
certain men unto him, desiring him that he should inquire of the
Lord whither the armies of the Nephites should go to defend
themselves against the Lamanites.

Alma 43:24
 24 And it came to pass that the word of the Lord came unto Alma,
and Alma informed the messengers of Moroni, that the armies of
the Lamanites were marching round about in the wilderness, that
they might come over into the land of Manti, that they might
commence an attack upon the weaker part of the people.  And those
messengers went and delivered the message unto Moroni.

Alma 43:25
 25 Now Moroni, leaving a part of his army in the land of
Jershon, lest by any means a part of the Lamanites should come
into that land and take possession of the city, took the
remaining part of his army and marched over into the land of
Manti.

Alma 43:26
 26 And he caused that all the people in that quarter of the land
should gather themselves together to battle against the
Lamanites, to defend their lands and their country, their rights
and their liberties; therefore they were prepared against the
time of the coming of the Lamanites.

Alma 43:27
 27 And it came to pass that Moroni caused that his army should
be secreted in the valley which was near the bank of the river
Sidon, which was on the west of the river Sidon in the
wilderness.

Alma 43:28
 28 And Moroni placed spies round about, that he might know when
the camp of the Lamanites should come.

Alma 43:29
 29 And now, as Moroni knew the intention of the Lamanites, that
it was their intention to destroy their brethren, or to subject
them and bring them into bondage that they might establish a
kingdom unto themselves over all the land;

Alma 43:30
 30 And he also knowing that it was the only desire of the
Nephites to preserve their lands, and their liberty, and their
church, therefore he thought it no sin that he should defend them
by stratagem; therefore, he found by his spies which course the
Lamanites were to take.

Alma 43:31
 31 Therefore, he divided his army and brought a part over into
the valley, and concealed them on the east, and on the south of
the hill Riplah;

Alma 43:32
 32 And the remainder he concealed in the west valley, on the
west of the river Sidon, and so down into the borders of the land
Manti.

Alma 43:33
 33 And thus having placed his army according to his desire, he
was prepared to meet them.

Alma 43:34
 34 And it came to pass that the Lamanites came up on the north
of the hill, where a part of the army of Moroni was concealed.

Alma 43:35
 35 And as the Lamanites had passed the hill Riplah, and came
into the valley, and began to cross the river Sidon, the army
which was concealed on the south of the hill, which was led by a
man whose name was Lehi, and he led his army forth and encircled
the Lamanites about on the east in their rear.

Alma 43:36
 36 And it came to pass that the Lamanites, when they saw the
Nephites coming upon them in their rear, turned them about and
began to contend with the army of Lehi.

Alma 43:37
 37 And the work of death commenced on both sides, but it was
more dreadful on the part of the Lamanites, for their nakedness
was exposed to the heavy blows of the Nephites with their swords
and their cimeters, which brought death almost at every stroke.

Alma 43:38
 38 While on the other hand, there was now and then a man fell
among the Nephites, by their swords and the loss of blood, they
being shielded from the more vital parts of the body, or the more
vital parts of the body being shielded from the strokes of the
Lamanites, by their breastplates, and their arm-shields, and
their head-plates; and thus the Nephites did carry on the work of
death among the Lamanites.

Alma 43:39
 39 And it came to pass that the Lamanites became frightened,
because of the great destruction among them, even until they
began to flee towards the river Sidon.

Alma 43:40
 40 And they were pursued by Lehi and his men; and they were
driven by Lehi into the waters of Sidon, and they crossed the
waters of Sidon.  And Lehi retained his armies upon the bank of
the river Sidon that they should not cross.

Alma 43:41
 41 And it came to pass that Moroni and his army met the
Lamanites in the valley, on the other side of the river Sidon,
and began to fall upon them and to slay them.

Alma 43:42
 42 And the Lamanites did flee again before them, towards the
land of Manti; and they were met again by the armies of Moroni.

Alma 43:43
 43 Now in this case the Lamanites did fight exceedingly; yea,
never had the Lamanites been known to fight with such exceedingly
great strength and courage, no, not even from the beginning.

Alma 43:44
 44 And they were inspired by the Zoramites and the Amalekites,
who were their chief captains and leaders, and by Zerahemnah, who
was their chief captain, or their chief leader and commander;
yea, they did fight like dragons, and many of the Nephites were
slain by their hands, yea, for they did smite in two many of
their head-plates, and they did pierce many of their
breastplates, and they did smite off many of their arms; and thus
the Lamanites did smite in their fierce anger.

Alma 43:45
 45 Nevertheless, the Nephites were inspired by a better cause,
for they were not fighting for monarchy nor power but they were
fighting for their homes and their liberties, their wives and
their children, and their all, yea, for their rites of worship
and their church.

Alma 43:46
 46 And they were doing that which they felt was the duty which
they owed to their God; for the Lord had said unto them, and also
unto their fathers, that: 


Alma 43:47
 47 And again, the Lord has said that:


Therefore for this cause were the
Nephites contending with the Lamanites, to defend themselves, and
their families, and their lands, their country, and their rights,
and their religion.

Alma 43:48
 48 And it came to pass that when the men of Moroni saw the
fierceness and the anger of the Lamanites, they were about to
shrink and flee from them.  And Moroni, perceiving their intent,
sent forth and inspired their hearts with these thoughts--yea,
the thoughts of their lands, their liberty, yea, their freedom
from bondage.

Alma 43:49
 49 And it came to pass that they turned upon the Lamanites, and
they cried with one voice unto the Lord their God, for their
liberty and their freedom from bondage.

Alma 43:50
 50 And they began to stand against the Lamanites with power; and
in that selfsame hour that they cried unto the Lord for their
freedom, the Lamanites began to flee before them; and they fled
even to the waters of Sidon.

Alma 43:51
 51 Now, the Lamanites were more numerous, yea, by more than
double the number of the Nephites; nevertheless, they were driven
insomuch that they were gathered together in one body in the
valley, upon the bank by the river Sidon.

Alma 43:52
 52 Therefore the armies of Moroni encircled them about, yea,
even on both sides of the river, for behold, on the east were the
men of Lehi.

Alma 43:53
 53 Therefore when Zerahemnah saw the men of Lehi on the east of
the river Sidon, and the armies of Moroni on the west of the
river Sidon, that they were encircled about by the Nephites, they
were struck with terror.

Alma 43:54
 54 Now Moroni, when he saw their terror, commanded his men that
they should stop shedding their blood.



Alma 44
Chapter 44

Alma 44:1
 1 And it came to pass that they did stop and withdrew a pace
from them.  And Moroni said unto Zerahemnah:



Alma 44:8
 8 And now it came to pass that when Zerahemnah had heard these
sayings he came forth and delivered up his sword and his cimeter,
and his bow into the hands of Moroni, and said unto him: 



Alma 44:10
 10 And now when Zerahemnah had made an end of speaking these
words, Moroni returned the sword and the weapons of war, which he
had received, unto Zerahemnah, saying:


Alma 44:15
 15 Now there were many, when they heard these words and saw the
scalp which was upon the sword, that were struck with fear; and
many came forth and threw down their weapons of war at the feet
of Moroni, and entered into a covenant of peace.  And as many as
entered into a covenant they suffered to depart into the
wilderness.

Alma 44:16
 16 Now it came to pass that Zerahemnah was exceedingly wroth,
and he did stir up the remainder of his soldiers to anger, to
contend more powerfully against the Nephites.

Alma 44:17
 17 And now Moroni was angry, because of the stubbornness of the
Lamanites; therefore he commanded his people that they should
fall upon them and slay them.  And it came to pass that they
began to slay them; yea, and the Lamanites did contend with their
swords and their might.

Alma 44:18
 18 But behold, their naked skins and their bare heads were
exposed to the sharp swords of the Nephites; yea, behold they
were pierced and smitten, yea, and did fall exceedingly fast
before the swords of the Nephites; and they began to be swept
down, even as the soldier of Moroni had prophesied.

Alma 44:19
 19 Now Zerahemnah, when he saw that they were all about to be
destroyed, cried mightily unto Moroni, promising that he would
covenant and also his people with them, if they would spare the
remainder of their lives, that they never would come to war again
against them.

Alma 44:20
 20 And it came to pass that Moroni caused that the work of death
should cease again among the people.  And he took the weapons of
war from the Lamanites; and after they had entered into a
covenant with him of peace they were suffered to depart into the
wilderness.

Alma 44:21
 21 Now the number of their dead was not numbered because of the
greatness of the number; yea, the number of their dead was
exceedingly great, both on the Nephites and on the Lamanites.

Alma 44:22
 22 And it came to pass that they did cast their dead into the
waters of Sidon, and they have gone forth and are buried in the
depths of the sea.

Alma 44:23
 23 And the armies of the Nephites, or of Moroni, returned and
came to their houses and their lands.

Alma 44:24
 24 And thus ended the eighteenth year of the reign of the judges
over the people of Nephi.  And thus ended the record of Alma,
which was written upon the plates of Nephi.

Alma 45
Chapter 45

Alma 45:1
 1 Behold, now it came to pass that the people of Nephi were
exceedingly rejoiced, because the Lord had again delivered them
out of the hands of their enemies; therefore they gave thanks
unto the Lord their God; yea, and they did fast much and pray
much, and they did worship God with exceedingly great joy.

Alma 45:2
 2 And it came to pass in the nineteenth year of the reign of the
judges over the people of Nephi, that Alma came unto his son
Helaman and said unto him:


Alma 45:3
 3 And Helaman said unto him: 

Alma 45:4
 4 And Alma said again: 



Alma 45:5
 5 And he said: 



Alma 45:6
 6 And Alma said unto him again: 



Alma 45:7
 7 And he said:



Alma 45:8
 8 Then Alma said unto him:



Alma 45:15
 15 And now it came to pass that after Alma had said these things
to Helaman, he blessed him, and also his other sons; and he also
blessed the earth for the righteous' sake.

Alma 45:16
 16 And he said: 


Alma 45:17
 17 And now, when Alma had said these words he blessed the
church, yea, all those who should stand fast in the faith from
that time henceforth.

Alma 45:18
 18 And when Alma had done this he departed out of the land of
Zarahemla, as if to go into the land of Melek.  And it came to
pass that he was never heard of more; as to his death or burial
we know not of.

Alma 45:19
 19 Behold, this we know, that he was a righteous man; and the
saying went abroad in the church that he was taken up by the
Spirit, or buried by the hand of the Lord, even as Moses.  But
behold, the scriptures saith the Lord took Moses unto himself;
and we suppose that he has also received Alma in the spirit, unto
himself; therefore, for this cause we know nothing concerning his
death and burial.

Alma 45:20
 20 And now it came to pass in the commencement of the nineteenth
year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, that
Helaman went forth among the people to declare the word unto
them.

Alma 45:21
 21 For behold, because of their wars with the Lamanites and the
many little dissensions and disturbances which had been among the
people, it became expedient that the word of God should be
declared among them, yea, and that a regulation should be made
throughout the church.

Alma 45:22
 22 Therefore, Helaman and his brethren went forth to establish
the church again in all the land, yea, in every city throughout
all the land which was possessed by the people of Nephi.  And it
came to pass that they did appoint priests and teachers
throughout all the land, over all the churches.

Alma 45:23
 23 And now it came to pass that after Helaman and his brethren
had appointed priests and teachers over the churches that there
arose a dissension among them, and they would not give heed to
the words of Helaman and his brethren;

Alma 45:24
 24 But they grew proud, being lifted up in their hearts, because
of their exceedingly great riches; therefore they grew rich in
their own eyes, and would not give heed to their words, to walk
uprightly before God.

Alma 46
Chapter 46

Alma 46:1
 1 And it came to pass that as many as would not hearken to the
words of Helaman and his brethren were gathered together against
their brethren.

Alma 46:2
 2 And now behold, they were exceedingly wroth, insomuch that
they were determined to slay them.

Alma 46:3
 3 Now the leader of those who were wroth against their brethren
was a large and a strong man; and his name was Amalickiah.

Alma 46:4
 4 And Amalickiah was desirous to be a king; and those people who
were wroth were also desirous that he should be their king; and
they were the greater part of them the lower judges of the land,
and they were seeking for power.

Alma 46:5
 5 And they had been led by the flatteries of Amalickiah, that if
they would support him and establish him to be their king that he
would make them rulers over the people.

Alma 46:6
 6 Thus they were led away by Amalickiah to dissensions,
notwithstanding the preaching of Helaman and his brethren, yea,
notwithstanding their exceedingly great care over the church, for
they were high priests over the church.

Alma 46:7
 7 And there were many in the church who believed in the
flattering words of Amalickiah, therefore they dissented even
from the church; and thus were the affairs of the people of Nephi
exceedingly precarious and dangerous, notwithstanding their great
victory which they had had over the Lamanites, and their great
rejoicings which they had had because of their deliverance by the
hand of the Lord.

Alma 46:8
 8 Thus we see how quick the children of men do forget the Lord
their God, yea, how quick to do iniquity, and to be led away by
the evil one.

Alma 46:9
 9 Yea, and we also see the great wickedness one very wicked man
can cause to take place among the children of men.

Alma 46:10
 10 Yea, we see that Amalickiah, because he was a man of cunning
device and a man of many flattering words, that he led away the
hearts of many people to do wickedly; yea, and to seek to destroy
the church of God, and to destroy the foundation of liberty which
God had granted unto them, or which blessing God had sent upon
the face of the land for the righteous' sake.

Alma 46:11
 11 And now it came to pass that when Moroni, who was the chief
commander of the armies of the Nephites, had heard of these
dissensions, he was angry with Amalickiah.

Alma 46:12
 12 And it came to pass that he rent his coat; and he took a
piece thereof, and wrote upon it--In memory of our God, our
religion, and freedom, and our peace, our wives, and our
children--and he fastened it upon the end of a pole.

Alma 46:13
 13 And he fastened on his head-plate, and his breastplate, and
his shields, and girded on his armor about his loins; and he took
the pole, which had on the end thereof his rent coat, (and he
called it the title of liberty) and he bowed himself to the
earth, and he prayed mightily unto his God for the blessings of
liberty to rest upon his brethren, so long as there should a band
of Christians remain to possess the land--

Alma 46:14
 14 For thus were all the true believers of Christ, who belonged
to the church of God, called by those who did not belong to the
church.

Alma 46:15
 15 And those who did belong to the church were faithful; yea,
all those who were true believers in Christ took upon them,
gladly, the name of Christ, or Christians as they were called,
because of their belief in Christ who should come.

Alma 46:16
 16 And therefore, at this time, Moroni prayed that the cause of
the Christians, and the freedom of the land might be favored.

Alma 46:17
 17 And it came to pass that when he had poured out his soul to
God, he named all the land which was south of the land
Desolation, yea, and in fine, all the land, both on the north and
on the south--A chosen land, and the land of liberty.

Alma 46:18
 18 And he said: 


Alma 46:19
 19 And when Moroni had said these words, he went forth among the
people, waving the rent part of his garment in the air, that all
might see the writing which he had written upon the rent part,
and crying with a loud voice, saying:


Alma 46:21
 21 And it came to pass that when Moroni had proclaimed these
words, behold, the people came running together with their armor
girded about their loins, rending their garments in token, or as
a covenant, that they would not forsake the Lord their God; or,
in other words, if they should transgress the commandments of
God, or fall into transgression, and be ashamed to take upon them
the name of Christ, the Lord should rend them even as they had
rent their garments.

Alma 46:22
 22 Now this was the covenant which they made, and they cast
their garments at the feet of Moroni, saying: We covenant with
our God, that we shall be destroyed, even as our brethren in the
land northward, if we shall fall into transgression; yea, he may
cast us at the feet of our enemies, even as we have cast our
garments at thy feet to be trodden under foot, if we shall fall
into transgression.

Alma 46:23
 23 Moroni said unto them: 


Alma 46:28
 28 And now it came to pass that when Moroni had said these words
he went forth, and also sent forth in all the parts of the land
where there were dissensions, and gathered together all the
people who were desirous to maintain their liberty, to stand
against Amalickiah and those who had dissented, who were called
Amalickiahites.

Alma 46:29
 29 And it came to pass that when Amalickiah saw that the people
of Moroni were more numerous than the Amalickiahites--and he also
saw that his people were doubtful concerning the justice of the
cause in which they had undertaken--therefore, fearing that he
should not gain the point, he took those of his people who would
and departed into the land of Nephi.

Alma 46:30
 30 Now Moroni thought it was not expedient that the Lamanites
should have any more strength; therefore he thought to cut off
the people of Amalickiah, or to take them and bring them back,
and put Amalickiah to death; yea, for he knew that he would stir
up the Lamanites to anger against them, and cause them to come to
battle against them; and this he knew that Amalickiah would do
that he might obtain his purposes.

Alma 46:31
 31 Therefore Moroni thought it was expedient that he should take
his armies, who had gathered themselves together, and armed
themselves, and entered into a covenant to keep the peace--and it
came to pass that he took his army and marched out with his tents
into the wilderness, to cut off the course of Amalickiah in the
wilderness.

Alma 46:32
 32 And it came to pass that he did according to his desires, and
marched forth into the wilderness, and headed the armies of
Amalickiah.

Alma 46:33
 33 And it came to pass that Amalickiah fled with a small number
of his men, and the remainder were delivered up into the hands of
Moroni and were taken back into the land of Zarahemla.

Alma 46:34
 34 Now, Moroni being a man who was appointed by the chief judges
and the voice of the people, therefore he had power according to
his will with the armies of the Nephites, to establish and to
exercise authority over them.

Alma 46:35
 35 And it came to pass that whomsoever of the Amalickiahites
that would not enter into a covenant to support the cause of
freedom, that they might maintain a free government, he caused to
be put to death; and there were but few who denied the covenant
of freedom.

Alma 46:36
 36 And it came to pass also, that he caused the title of liberty
to be hoisted upon every tower which was in all the land, which
was possessed by the Nephites; and thus Moroni planted the
standard of liberty among the Nephites.

Alma 46:37
 37 And they began to have peace again in the land; and thus they
did maintain peace in the land until nearly the end of the
nineteenth year of the reign of the judges.

Alma 46:38
 38 And Helaman and the high priests did also maintain order in
the church; yea, even for the space of four years did they have
much peace and rejoicing in the church.

Alma 46:39
 39 And it came to pass that there were many who died, firmly
believing that their souls were redeemed by the Lord Jesus
Christ; thus they went out of the world rejoicing.

Alma 46:40
 40 And there were some who died with fevers, which at some
seasons of the year were very frequent in the land--but not so
much so with fevers, because of the excellent qualities of the
many plants and roots which God had prepared to remove the cause
of diseases, to which men were subject by the nature of the
climate--

Alma 46:41
 41 But there were many who died with old age; and those who died
in the faith of Christ are happy in him, as we must needs
suppose.



Alma 47
Chapter 47

Alma 47:1
 1 Now we will return in our record to Amalickiah and those who
had fled with him into the wilderness; for, behold, he had taken
those who went with him, and went up in the land of Nephi among
the Lamanites, and did stir up the Lamanites to anger against the
people of Nephi, insomuch that the king of the Lamanites sent a
proclamation throughout all his land, among all his people, that
they should gather themselves together again to go to battle
against the Nephites.

Alma 47:2
 2 And it came to pass that when the proclamation had gone forth
among them they were exceedingly afraid; yea, they feared to
displease the king, and they also feared to go to battle against
the Nephites lest they should lose their lives.  And it came to
pass that they would not, or the more part of them would not,
obey the commandments of the king.

Alma 47:3
 3 And now it came to pass that the king was wroth because of
their disobedience; therefore he gave Amalickiah the command of
that part of his army which was obedient unto his commands, and
commanded him that he should go forth and compel them to arms.

Alma 47:4
 4 Now behold, this was the desire of Amalickiah; for he being a
very subtle man to do evil therefore he laid the plan in his
heart to dethrone the king of the Lamanites.

Alma 47:5
 5 And now he had got the command of those parts of the Lamanites
who were in favor of the king; and he sought to gain favor of
those who were not obedient; therefore he went forward to the
place which was called Onidah, for thither had all the Lamanites
fled; for they discovered the army coming, and, supposing that
they were coming to destroy them, therefore they fled to Onidah,
to the place of arms.

Alma 47:6
 6 And they had appointed a man to be a king and a leader over
them, being fixed in their minds with a determined resolution
that they would not be subjected to go against the Nephites.

Alma 47:7
 7 And it came to pass that they had gathered themselves together
upon the top of the mount which was called Antipas, in
preparation to battle.

Alma 47:8
 8 Now it was not Amalickiah's intention to give them battle
according to the commandments of the king; but behold, it was his
intention to gain favor with the armies of the Lamanites, that he
might place himself at their head and dethrone the king and take
possession of the kingdom.

Alma 47:9
 9 And behold, it came to pass that he caused his army to pitch
their tents in the valley which was near the mount Antipas.

Alma 47:10
 10 And it came to pass that when it was night he sent a secret
embassy into the mount Antipas, desiring that the leader of those
who were upon the mount, whose name was Lehonti, that he should
come down to the foot of the mount, for he desired to speak with
him.

Alma 47:11
 11 And it came to pass that when Lehonti received the message he
durst not go down to the foot of the mount.  And it came to pass
that Amalickiah sent again the second time, desiring him to come
down.  And it came to pass that Lehonti would not; and he sent
again the third time.

Alma 47:12
 12 And it came to pass that when Amalickiah found that he could
not get Lehonti to come down off from the mount, he went up into
the mount, nearly to Lehonti's camp; and he sent again the fourth
time his message unto Lehonti, desiring that he would come down,
and that he would bring his guards with him.

Alma 47:13
 13 And it came to pass that when Lehonti had come down with his
guards to Amalickiah, that Amalickiah desired him to come down
with his army in the night-time, and surround those men in their
camps over whom the king had given him command, and that he would
deliver them up into Lehonti's hands, if he would make him
(Amalickiah) a second leader over the whole army.

Alma 47:14
 14 And it came to pass that Lehonti came down with his men and
surrounded the men of Amalickiah, so that before they awoke at
the dawn of day they were surrounded by the armies of Lehonti.

Alma 47:15
 15 And it came to pass that when they saw that they were
surrounded, they plead with Amalickiah that he would suffer them
to fall in with their brethren, that they might not be destroyed.

Now this was the very thing which Amalickiah desired.

Alma 47:16
 16 And it came to pass that he delivered his men, contrary to
the commands of the king.  Now this was the thing that Amalickiah
desired, that he might accomplish his designs in dethroning the
king.

Alma 47:17
 17 Now it was the custom among the Lamanites, if their chief
leader was killed, to appoint the second leader to be their chief
leader.

Alma 47:18
 18 And it came to pass that Amalickiah caused that one of his
servants should administer poison by degrees to Lehonti, that he
died.

Alma 47:19
 19 Now, when Lehonti was dead, the Lamanites appointed
Amalickiah to be their leader and their chief commander.

Alma 47:20
 20 And it came to pass that Amalickiah marched with his armies
(for he had gained his desires) to the land of Nephi, to the city
of Nephi, which was the chief city.

Alma 47:21
 21 And the king came out to meet him with his guards, for he
supposed that Amalickiah had fulfilled his commands, and that
Amalickiah had gathered together so great an army to go against
the Nephites to battle.

Alma 47:22
 22 But behold, as the king came out to meet him Amalickiah
caused that his servants should go forth to meet the king.  And
they went and bowed themselves before the king, as if to
reverence him because of his greatness.

Alma 47:23
 23 And it came to pass that the king put forth his hand to raise
them, as was the custom with the Lamanites, as a token of peace,
which custom they had taken from the Nephites.

Alma 47:24
 24 And it came to pass that when he had raised the first from
the ground, behold he stabbed the king to the heart; and he fell
to the earth.

Alma 47:25
 25 Now the servants of the king fled; and the servants of
Amalickiah raised a cry, saying:


Alma 47:27
 27 And it came to pass that Amalickiah commanded that his armies
should march forth and see what had happened to the king; and
when they had come to the spot, and found the king lying in his
gore, Amalickiah pretended to be wroth, and said:



Alma 47:28
 28 And it came to pass that all they who loved the king, when
they heard these words, came forth and pursued after the servants
of the king.

Alma 47:29
 29 Now when the servants of the king saw an army pursuing after
them, they were frightened again, and fled into the wilderness,
and came over into the land of Zarahemla and joined the people of
Ammon.

Alma 47:30
 30 And the army which pursued after them returned, having
pursued after them in vain; and thus Amalickiah, by his fraud,
gained the hearts of the people.

Alma 47:31
 31 And it came to pass on the morrow he entered the city Nephi
with his armies, and took possession of the city.

Alma 47:32
 32 And now it came to pass that the queen, when she had heard
that the king was slain--for Amalickiah had sent an embassy to
the queen informing her that the king had been slain by his
servants, that he had pursued them with his army, but it was in
vain, and they had made their escape--

Alma 47:33
 33 Therefore, when the queen had received this message she sent
unto Amalickiah, desiring him that he would spare the people of
the city; and she also desired him that he should come in unto
her; and she also desired him that he should bring witnesses with
him to testify concerning the death of the king.

Alma 47:34
 34 And it came to pass that Amalickiah took the same servant
that slew the king, and all them who were with him, and went in
unto the queen, unto the place where she sat; and they all
testified unto her that the king was slain by his own servants;
and they said also: They have fled; does not this testify against
them?   And thus they satisfied the queen concerning the death of
the king.

Alma 47:35
 35 And it came to pass that Amalickiah sought the favor of the
queen, and took her unto him to wife; and thus by his fraud, and
by the assistance of his cunning servants, he obtained the
kingdom; yea, he was acknowledged king throughout all the land,
among all the people of the Lamanites, who were composed of the
Lamanites and the Lemuelites and the Ishmaelites, and all the
dissenters of the Nephites, from the reign of Nephi down to the
present time.

Alma 47:36
 36 Now these dissenters, having the same instruction and the
same information of the Nephites, yea, having been instructed in
the same knowledge of the Lord, nevertheless, it is strange to
relate, not long after their dissensions they became more
hardened and impenitent, and more wild, wicked and ferocious than
the Lamanites--drinking in with the traditions of the Lamanites;
giving way to indolence, and all manner of lasciviousness; yea,
entirely forgetting the Lord their God.

Alma 48
Chapter 48

Alma 48:1
 1 And now it came to pass that, as soon as Amalickiah had
obtained the kingdom he began to inspire the hearts of the
Lamanites against the people of Nephi; yea, he did appoint men to
speak unto the Lamanites from their towers, against the Nephites.

Alma 48:2
 2 And thus he did inspire their hearts against the Nephites,
insomuch that in the latter end of the nineteenth year of the
reign of the judges, he having accomplished his designs thus far,
yea, having been made king over the Lamanites, he sought also to
reign over all the land, yea, and all the people who were in the
land, the Nephites as well as the Lamanites.

Alma 48:3
 3 Therefore he had accomplished his design, for he had hardened
the hearts of the Lamanites and blinded their minds, and stirred
them up to anger, insomuch that he had gathered together a
numerous host to go to battle against the Nephites.

Alma 48:4
 4 For he was determined, because of the greatness of the number
of his people, to overpower the Nephites and to bring them into
bondage.

Alma 48:5
 5 And thus he did appoint chief captains of the Zoramites, they
being the most acquainted with the strength of the Nephites, and
their places of resort, and the weakest parts of their cities;
therefore he appointed them to be chief captains over his armies.

Alma 48:6
 6 And it came to pass that they took their camp, and moved forth
toward the land of Zarahemla in the wilderness.

Alma 48:7
 7 Now it came to pass that while Amalickiah had thus been
obtaining power by fraud and deceit, Moroni, on the other hand,
had been preparing the minds of the people to be faithful unto
the Lord their God.

Alma 48:8
 8 Yea, he had been strengthening the armies of the Nephites, and
erecting small forts, or places of resort; throwing up banks of
earth round about to enclose his armies, and also building walls
of stone to encircle them about, round about their cities and the
borders of their lands; yea, all round about the land.

Alma 48:9
 9 And in their weakest fortifications he did place the greater
number of men; and thus he did fortify and strengthen the land
which was possessed by the Nephites.

Alma 48:10
 10 And thus he was preparing to support their liberty, their
lands, their wives, and their children, and their peace, and that
they might live unto the Lord their God, and that they might
maintain that which was called by their enemies the cause of
Christians.

Alma 48:11
 11 And Moroni was a strong and a mighty man; he was a man of a
perfect understanding; yea, a man that did not delight in
bloodshed; a man whose soul did joy in the liberty and the
freedom of his country, and his brethren from bondage and
slavery;

Alma 48:12
 12 Yea, a man whose heart did swell with thanksgiving to his
God, for the many privileges and blessings which he bestowed upon
his people; a man who did labor exceedingly for the welfare and
safety of his people.

Alma 48:13
 13 Yea, and he was a man who was firm in the faith of Christ,
and he had sworn with an oath to defend his people, his rights,
and his country, and his religion, even to the loss of his blood.

Alma 48:14
 14 Now the Nephites were taught to defend themselves against
their enemies, even to the shedding of blood if it were
necessary; yea, and they were also taught never to give an
offense, yea, and never to raise the sword except it were against
an enemy, except it were to preserve their lives.

Alma 48:15
 15 And this was their faith, that by so doing God would prosper
them in the land, or in other words, if they were faithful in
keeping the commandments of God that he would prosper them in the
land; yea, warn them to flee, or to prepare for war, according to
their danger;

Alma 48:16
 16 And also, that God would make it known unto them whither they
should go to defend themselves against their enemies, and by so
doing, the Lord would deliver them; and this was the faith of
Moroni, and his heart did glory in it; not in the shedding of
blood but in doing good, in preserving his people, yea, in
keeping the commandments of God, yea, and resisting iniquity.

Alma 48:17
 17 Yea, verily, verily I say unto you, if all men had been, and
were, and ever would be, like unto Moroni, behold, the very
powers of hell would have been shaken forever; yea, the devil
would never have power over the hearts of the children of men.

Alma 48:18
 18 Behold, he was a man like unto Ammon, the son of Mosiah, yea,
and even the other sons of Mosiah, yea, and also Alma and his
sons, for they were all men of God.

Alma 48:19
 19 Now behold, Helaman and his brethren were no less serviceable
unto the people than was Moroni; for they did preach the word of
God, and they did baptize unto repentance all men whosoever would
hearken unto their words.

Alma 48:20
 20 And thus they went forth, and the people did humble
themselves because of their words, insomuch that they were highly
favored of the Lord, and thus they were free from wars and
contentions among themselves, yea, even for the space of four
years.

Alma 48:21
 21 But, as I have said, in the latter end of the nineteenth
year, yea, notwithstanding their peace amongst themselves, they
were compelled reluctantly to contend with their brethren, the
Lamanites.

Alma 48:22
 22 Yea, and in fine, their wars never did cease for the space of
many years with the Lamanites, notwithstanding their much
reluctance.

Alma 48:23
 23 Now, they were sorry to take up arms against the Lamanites,
because they did not delight in the shedding of blood; yea, and
this was not all--they were sorry to be the means of sending so
many of their brethren out of this world into an eternal world,
unprepared to meet their God.

Alma 48:24
 24 Nevertheless, they could not suffer to lay down their lives,
that their wives and their children should be massacred by the
barbarous cruelty of those who were once their brethren, yea, and
had dissented from their church, and had left them and had gone
to destroy them by joining the Lamanites.

Alma 48:25
 25 Yea, they could not bear that their brethren should rejoice
over the blood of the Nephites, so long as there were any who
should keep the commandments of God, for the promise of the Lord
was, if they should keep his commandments they should prosper in
the land.


Alma 49
Chapter 49

Alma 49:1
 1 And now it came to pass in the eleventh month of the
nineteenth year, on the tenth day of the month, the armies of the
Lamanites were seen approaching towards the land of Ammonihah.

Alma 49:2
 2 And behold, the city had been rebuilt, and Moroni had
stationed an army by the borders of the city, and they had cast
up dirt around about to shield them from the arrows and the
stones of the Lamanites; for behold, they fought with stones and
with arrows.

Alma 49:3
 3 Behold, I said that the city of Ammonihah had been rebuilt.  I
say unto you, yea, that it was in part rebuilt; and because the
Lamanites had destroyed it once because of the iniquity of the
people, they supposed that it would again become an easy prey for
them.

Alma 49:4
 4 But behold, how great was their disappointment; for behold,
the Nephites had dug up a ridge of earth round about them, which
was so high that the Lamanites could not cast their stones and
their arrows at them that they might take effect, neither could
they come upon them save it was by their place of entrance.

Alma 49:5
 5 Now at this time the chief captains of the Lamanites were
astonished exceedingly, because of the wisdom of the Nephites in
preparing their places of security.

Alma 49:6
 6 Now the leaders of the Lamanites had supposed, because of the
greatness of their numbers, yea, they supposed that they should
be privileged to come upon them as they had hitherto done; yea,
and they had also prepared themselves with shields, and with
breastplates; and they had also prepared themselves with garments
of skins, yea, very thick garments to cover their nakedness.

Alma 49:7
 7 And being thus prepared they supposed that they should easily
overpower and subject their brethren to the yoke of bondage, or
slay and massacre them according to their pleasure.

Alma 49:8
 8 But behold, to their uttermost astonishment, they were
prepared for them, in a manner which never had been known among
the children of Lehi.  Now they were prepared for the Lamanites,
to battle after the manner of the instructions of Moroni.

Alma 49:9
 9 And it came to pass that the Lamanites, or the Amalickiahites,
were exceedingly astonished at their manner of preparation for
war.

Alma 49:10
 10 Now, if king Amalickiah had come down out of the land of
Nephi, at the head of his army, perhaps he would have caused the
Lamanites to have attacked the Nephites at the city of Ammonihah;
for behold, he did care not for the blood of his people.

Alma 49:11
 11 But behold, Amalickiah did not come down himself to battle. 
And behold, his chief captains durst not attack the Nephites at
the city of Ammonihah, for Moroni had altered the management of
affairs among the Nephites, insomuch that the Lamanites were
disappointed in their places of retreat and they could not come
upon them.

Alma 49:12
 12 Therefore they retreated into the wilderness, and took their
camp and marched towards the land of Noah, supposing that to be
the next best place for them to come against the Nephites.

Alma 49:13
 13 For they knew not that Moroni had fortified, or had built
forts of security, for every city in all the land round about;
therefore, they marched forward to the land of Noah with a firm
determination; yea, their chief captains came forward and took an
oath that they would destroy the people of that city.

Alma 49:14
 14 But behold, to their astonishment, the city of Noah, which
had hitherto been a weak place, had now, by the means of Moroni,
become strong, yea, even to exceed the strength of the city
Ammonihah.

Alma 49:15
 15 And now, behold, this was wisdom in Moroni; for he had
supposed that they would be frightened at the city Ammonihah; and
as the city of Noah had hitherto been the weakest part of the
land, therefore they would march thither to battle; and thus it
was according to his desires.

Alma 49:16
 16 And behold, Moroni had appointed Lehi to be chief captain
over the men of that city; and it was that same Lehi who fought
with the Lamanites in the valley on the east of the river Sidon.

Alma 49:17
 17 And now behold it came to pass, that when the Lamanites had
found that Lehi commanded the city they were again disappointed,
for they feared Lehi exceedingly; nevertheless their chief
captains had sworn with an oath to attack the city; therefore,
they brought up their armies.

Alma 49:18
 18 Now behold, the Lamanites could not get into their forts of
security by any other way save by the entrance, because of the
highness of the bank which had been thrown up, and the depth of
the ditch which had been dug round about, save it were by the
entrance.

Alma 49:19
 19 And thus were the Nephites prepared to destroy all such as
should attempt to climb up to enter the fort by any other way, by
casting over stones and arrows at them.

Alma 49:20
 20 Thus they were prepared, yea, a body of their strongest men,
with their swords and their slings, to smite down all who should
attempt to come into their place of security by the place of
entrance; and thus were they prepared to defend themselves
against the Lamanites.

Alma 49:21
 21 And it came to pass that the captains of the Lamanites
brought up their armies before the place of entrance, and began
to contend with the Nephites, to get into their place of
security; but behold, they were driven back from time to time,
insomuch that they were slain with an immense slaughter.

Alma 49:22
 22 Now when they found that they could not obtain power over the
Nephites by the pass, they began to dig down their banks of earth
that they might obtain a pass to their armies, that they might
have an equal chance to fight; but behold, in these attempts they
were swept off by the stones and arrows which were thrown at
them; and instead of filling up their ditches by pulling down the
banks of earth, they were filled up in a measure with their dead
and wounded bodies.

Alma 49:23
 23 Thus the Nephites had all power over their enemies; and thus
the Lamanites did attempt to destroy the Nephites until their
chief captains were all slain; yea, and more than a thousand of
the Lamanites were slain; while, on the other hand, there was not
a single soul of the Nephites which was slain.

Alma 49:24
 24 There were about fifty who were wounded, who had been exposed
to the arrows of the Lamanites through the pass, but they were
shielded by their shields, and their breastplates, and their
head-plates, insomuch that their wounds were upon their legs,
many of which were very severe.

Alma 49:25
 25 And it came to pass, that when the Lamanites saw that their
chief captains were all slain they fled into the wilderness.  And
it came to pass that they returned to the land of Nephi, to
inform their king, Amalickiah, who was a Nephite by birth,
concerning their great loss.

Alma 49:26
 26 And it came to pass that he was exceedingly angry with his
people, because he had not obtained his desire over the Nephites;
he had not subjected them to the yoke of bondage.

Alma 49:27
 27 Yea, he was exceedingly wroth, and he did curse God, and also
Moroni, swearing with an oath that he would drink his blood; and
this because Moroni had kept the commandments of God in preparing
for the safety of his people.

Alma 49:28
 28 And it came to pass, that on the other hand, the people of
Nephi did thank the Lord their God, because of his matchless
power in delivering them from the hands of their enemies.

Alma 49:29
 29 And thus ended the nineteenth year of the reign of the judges
over the people of Nephi.

Alma 49:30
 30 Yea, and there was continual peace among them, and
exceedingly great prosperity in the church because of their heed
and diligence which they gave unto the word of God, which was
declared unto them by Helaman, and Shiblon, and Corianton, and
Ammon and his brethren, yea, and by all those who had been
ordained by the holy order of God, being baptized unto
repentance, and sent forth to preach among the people.



Alma 50
Chapter 50

Alma 50:1
 1 And now it came to pass that Moroni did not stop making
preparations for war, or to defend his people against the
Lamanites; for he caused that his armies should commence in the
commencement of the twentieth year of the reign of the judges,
that they should commence in digging up heaps of earth round
about all the cities, throughout all the land which was possessed
by the Nephites.

Alma 50:2
 2 And upon the top of these ridges of earth he caused that there
should be timbers, yea, works of timbers built up to the height
of a man, round about the cities.

Alma 50:3
 3 And he caused that upon those works of timbers there should be
a frame of pickets built upon the timbers round about; and they
were strong and high.

Alma 50:4
 4 And he caused towers to be erected that overlooked those works
of pickets, and he caused places of security to be built upon
those towers, that the stones and the arrows of the Lamanites
could not hurt them.

Alma 50:5
 5 And they were prepared that they could cast stones from the
top thereof, according to their pleasure and their strength, and
slay him who should attempt to approach near the walls of the
city.

Alma 50:6
 6 Thus Moroni did prepare strongholds against the coming of
their enemies, round about every city in all the land.

Alma 50:7
 7 And it came to pass that Moroni caused that his armies should
go forth into the east wilderness; yea, and they went forth and
drove all the Lamanites who were in the east wilderness into
their own lands, which were south of the land of Zarahemla.

Alma 50:8
 8 And the land of Nephi did run in a straight course from the
east sea to the west.

Alma 50:9
 9 And it came to pass that when Moroni had driven all the
Lamanites out of the east wilderness, which was north of the
lands of their own possessions, he caused that the inhabitants
who were in the land of Zarahemla and in the land round about
should go forth into the east wilderness, even to the borders by
the seashore, and possess the land.

Alma 50:10
 10 And he also placed armies on the south, in the borders of
their possessions, and caused them to erect fortifications that
they might secure their armies and their people from the hands of
their enemies.

Alma 50:11
 11 And thus he cut off all the strongholds of the Lamanites in
the east wilderness, yea, and also on the west, fortifying the
line between the Nephites and the Lamanites, between the land of
Zarahemla and the land of Nephi, from the west sea, running by
the head of the river Sidon--the Nephites possessing all the land
northward, yea, even all the land which was northward of the land
Bountiful, according to their pleasure.

Alma 50:12
 12 Thus Moroni, with his armies, which did increase daily
because of the assurance of protection which his works did bring
forth unto them, did seek to cut off the strength and the power
of the Lamanites from off the lands of their possessions, that
they should have no power upon the lands of their possession.

Alma 50:13
 13 And it came to pass that the Nephites began the foundation of
a city, and they called the name of the city Moroni; and it was
by the east sea; and it was on the south by the line of the
possessions of the Lamanites.

Alma 50:14
 14 And they also began a foundation for a city between the city
of Moroni and the city of Aaron, joining the borders of Aaron and
Moroni; and they called the name of the city, or the land,
Nephihah.

Alma 50:15
 15 And they also began in that same year to build many cities on
the north, one in a particular manner which they called Lehi,
which was in the north by the borders of the seashore.

Alma 50:16
 16 And thus ended the twentieth year.

Alma 50:17
 17 And in these prosperous circumstances were the people of
Nephi in the commencement of the twenty and first year of the
reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.

Alma 50:18
 18 And they did prosper exceedingly, and they became exceedingly
rich; yea, and they did multiply and wax strong in the land.

Alma 50:19
 19 And thus we see how merciful and just are all the dealings of
the Lord, to the fulfilling of all his words unto the children of
men; yea, we can behold that his words are verified, even at this
time, which he spake unto Lehi, saying:

Alma 50:20
 20 Blessed art thou and thy children; and they shall be blessed,
inasmuch as they shall keep my commandments they shall prosper in
the land.   But remember, inasmuch as they will not keep my
commandments they shall be cut off from the presence of the Lord.

Alma 50:21
 21 And we see that these promises have been verified to the
people of Nephi; for it has been their quarrelings and their
contentions, yea, their murderings, and their plunderings, their
idolatry, their whoredoms, and their abominations, which were
among themselves, which brought upon them their wars and their
destructions.

Alma 50:22
 22 And those who were faithful in keeping the commandments of
the Lord were delivered at all times, whilst thousands of their
wicked brethren have been consigned to bondage, or to perish by
the sword, or to dwindle in unbelief, and mingle with the
Lamanites.

Alma 50:23
 23 But behold there never was a happier time among the people of
Nephi, since the days of Nephi, than in the days of Moroni, yea,
even at this time, in the twenty and first year of the reign of
the judges.

Alma 50:24
 24 And it came to pass that the twenty and second year of the
reign of the judges also ended in peace; yea, and also the twenty
and third year.

Alma 50:25
 25 And it came to pass that in the commencement of the twenty
and fourth year of the reign of the judges, there would also have
been peace among the people of Nephi had it not been for a
contention which took place among them concerning the land of
Lehi, and the land of Morianton, which joined upon the borders of
Lehi; both of which were on the borders by the seashore.

Alma 50:26
 26 For behold, the people who possessed the land of Morianton
did claim a part of the land of Lehi; therefore there began to be
a warm contention between them, insomuch that the people of
Morianton took up arms against their brethren, and they were
determined by the sword to slay them.

Alma 50:27
 27 But behold, the people who possessed the land of Lehi fled to
the camp of Moroni, and appealed unto him for assistance; for
behold they were not in the wrong.

Alma 50:28
 28 And it came to pass that when the people of Morianton, who
were led by a man whose name was Morianton, found that the people
of Lehi had fled to the camp of Moroni, they were exceedingly
fearful lest the army of Moroni should come upon them and destroy
them.

Alma 50:29
 29 Therefore, Morianton put it into their hearts that they
should flee to the land which was northward, which was covered
with large bodies of water, and take possession of the land which
was northward.

Alma 50:30
 30 And behold, they would have carried this plan into effect,
(which would have been a cause to have been lamented) but behold,
Morianton being a man of much passion, therefore he was angry
with one of his maid servants, and he fell upon her and beat her
much.

Alma 50:31
 31 And it came to pass that she fled, and came over to the camp
of Moroni, and told Moroni all things concerning the matter, and
also concerning their intentions to flee into the land northward.

Alma 50:32
 32 Now behold, the people who were in the land Bountiful, or
rather Moroni, feared that they would hearken to the words of
Morianton and unite with his people, and thus he would obtain
possession of those parts of the land, which would lay a
foundation for serious consequences among the people of Nephi,
yea, which consequences would lead to the overthrow of their
liberty.

Alma 50:33
 33 Therefore Moroni sent an army, with their camp, to head the
people of Morianton, to stop their flight into the land
northward.

Alma 50:34
 34 And it came to pass that they did not head them until they
had come to the borders of the land Desolation; and there they
did head them, by the narrow pass which led by the sea into the
land northward, yea, by the sea, on the west and on the east.

Alma 50:35
 35 And it came to pass that the army which was sent by Moroni,
which was led by a man whose name was Teancum, did meet the
people of Morianton; and so stubborn were the people of
Morianton, (being inspired by his wickedness and his flattering
words) that a battle commenced between them, in the which Teancum
did slay Morianton and defeat his army, and took them prisoners,
and returned to the camp of Moroni.  And thus ended the twenty
and fourth year of the reign of the judges over the people of
Nephi.

Alma 50:36
 36 And thus were the people of Morianton brought back.  And upon
their covenanting to keep the peace they were restored to the
land of Morianton, and a union took place between them and the
people of Lehi; and they were also restored to their lands.

Alma 50:37
 37 And it came to pass that in the same year that the people of
Nephi had peace restored unto them, that Nephihah, the second
chief judge, died, having filled the judgment-seat with perfect
uprightness before God.

Alma 50:38
 38 Nevertheless, he had refused Alma to take possession of those
records and those things which were esteemed by Alma and his
fathers to be most sacred; therefore Alma had conferred them upon
his son, Helaman.

Alma 50:39
 39 Behold, it came to pass that the son of Nephihah was
appointed to fill the judgment-seat, in the stead of his father;
yea, he was appointed chief judge and governor over the people,
with an oath and sacred ordinance to judge righteously, and to
keep the peace and the freedom of the people, and to grant unto
them their sacred privileges to worship the Lord their God, yea,
to support and maintain the cause of God all his days, and to
bring the wicked to justice according to their crime.

Alma 50:40
 40 Now behold, his name was Pahoran.  And Pahoran did fill the
seat of his father, and did commence his reign in the end of the
twenty and fourth year, over the people of Nephi.


Alma 51
Chapter 51

Alma 51:1
 1 And now it came to pass in the commencement of the twenty and
fifth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi,
they having established peace between the people of Lehi and the
people of Morianton concerning their lands, and having commenced
the twenty and fifth year in peace;

Alma 51:2
 2 Nevertheless, they did not long maintain an entire peace in
the land, for there began to be a contention among the people
concerning the chief judge Pahoran; for behold, there were a part
of the people who desired that a few particular points of the law
should be altered.

Alma 51:3
 3 But behold, Pahoran would not alter nor suffer the law to be
altered; therefore, he did not hearken to those who had sent in
their voices with their petitions concerning the altering of the
law.

Alma 51:4
 4 Therefore, those who were desirous that the law should be
altered were angry with him, and desired that he should no longer
be chief judge over the land; therefore there arose a warm
dispute concerning the matter, but not unto bloodshed.

Alma 51:5
 5 And it came to pass that those who were desirous that Pahoran
should be dethroned from the judgment-seat were called king-men,
for they were desirous that the law should be altered in a manner
to overthrow the free government and to establish a king over the
land.

Alma 51:6
 6 And those who were desirous that Pahoran should remain chief
judge over the land took upon them the name of freemen; and thus
was the division among them, for the freemen had sworn or
covenanted to maintain their rights and the privileges of their
religion by a free government.

Alma 51:7
 7 And it came to pass that this matter of their contention was
settled by the voice of the people.  And it came to pass that the
voice of the people came in favor of the freemen, and Pahoran
retained the judgment-seat, which caused much rejoicing among the
brethren of Pahoran and also many of the people of liberty, who
also put the king-men to silence, that they durst not oppose but
were obliged to maintain the cause of freedom.

Alma 51:8
 8 Now those who were in favor of kings were those of high birth,
and they sought to be kings; and they were supported by those who
sought power and authority over the people.

Alma 51:9
 9 But behold, this was a critical time for such contentions to
be among the people of Nephi; for behold, Amalickiah had again
stirred up the hearts of the people of the Lamanites against the
people of the Nephites, and he was gathering together soldiers
from all parts of his land, and arming them, and preparing for
war with all diligence; for he had sworn to drink the blood of
Moroni.

Alma 51:10
 10 But behold, we shall see that his promise which he made was
rash; nevertheless, he did prepare himself and his armies to come
to battle against the Nephites.

Alma 51:11
 11 Now his armies were not so great as they had hitherto been,
because of the many thousands who had been slain by the hand of
the Nephites; but notwithstanding their great loss, Amalickiah
had gathered together a wonderfully great army, insomuch that he
feared not to come down to the land of Zarahemla.

Alma 51:12
 12 Yea, even Amalickiah did himself come down, at the head of
the Lamanites.  And it was in the twenty and fifth year of the
reign of the judges; and it was at the same time that they had
begun to settle the affairs of their contentions concerning the
chief judge, Pahoran.

Alma 51:13
 13 And it came to pass that when the men who were called
king-men had heard that the Lamanites were coming down to battle
against them, they were glad in their hearts; and they refused to
take up arms, for they were so wroth with the chief judge, and
also with the people of liberty, that they would not take up arms
to defend their country.

Alma 51:14
 14 And it came to pass that when Moroni saw this, and also saw
that the Lamanites were coming into the borders of the land, he
was exceedingly wroth because of the stubbornness of those people
whom he had labored with so much diligence to preserve; yea, he
was exceedingly wroth; his soul was filled with anger against
them.

Alma 51:15
 15 And it came to pass that he sent a petition, with the voice
of the people, unto the governor of the land, desiring that he
should read it, and give him (Moroni) power to compel those
dissenters to defend their country or to put them to death.

Alma 51:16
 16 For it was his first care to put an end to such contentions
and dissensions among the people; for behold, this had been
hitherto a cause of all their destruction.  And it came to pass
that it was granted according to the voice of the people.

Alma 51:17
 17 And it came to pass that Moroni commanded that his army
should go against those king-men, to pull down their pride and
their nobility and level them with the earth, or they should take
up arms and support the cause of liberty.

Alma 51:18
 18 And it came to pass that the armies did march forth against
them; and they did pull down their pride and their nobility,
insomuch that as they did lift their weapons of war to fight
against the men of Moroni they were hewn down and leveled to the
earth.

Alma 51:19
 19 And it came to pass that there were four thousand of those
dissenters who were hewn down by the sword; and those of their
leaders who were not slain in battle were taken and cast into
prison, for there was no time for their trials at this period.

Alma 51:20
 20 And the remainder of those dissenters, rather than be smitten
down to the earth by the sword, yielded to the standard of
liberty, and were compelled to hoist the title of liberty upon
their towers, and in their cities, and to take up arms in defence
of their country.

Alma 51:21
 21 And thus Moroni put an end to those king-men, that there were
not any known by the appellation of king-men; and thus he put an
end to the stubbornness and the pride of those people who
professed the blood of nobility; but they were brought down to
humble themselves like unto their brethren, and to fight
valiantly for their freedom from bondage.

Alma 51:22
 22 Behold, it came to pass that while Moroni was thus breaking
down the wars and contentions among his own people, and
subjecting them to peace and civilization, and making regulations
to prepare for war against the Lamanites, behold, the Lamanites
had come into the land of Moroni, which was in the borders by the
seashore.

Alma 51:23
 23 And it came to pass that the Nephites were not sufficiently
strong in the city of Moroni; therefore Amalickiah did drive
them, slaying many.  And it came to pass that Amalickiah took
possession of the city, yea, possession of all their
fortifications.

Alma 51:24
 24 And those who fled out of the city of Moroni came to the city
of Nephihah; and also the people of the city of Lehi gathered
themselves together, and made preparations and were ready to
receive the Lamanites to battle.

Alma 51:25
 25 But it came to pass that Amalickiah would not suffer the
Lamanites to go against the city of Nephihah to battle, but kept
them down by the seashore, leaving men in every city to maintain
and defend it.

Alma 51:26
 26 And thus he went on, taking possession of many cities, the
city of Nephihah, and the city of Lehi, and the city of
Morianton, and the city of Omner, and the city of Gid, and the
city of Mulek, all of which were on the east borders by the
seashore.

Alma 51:27
 27 And thus had the Lamanites obtained, by the cunning of
Amalickiah, so many cities, by their numberless hosts, all of
which were strongly fortified after the manner of the
fortifications of Moroni; all of which afforded strongholds for
the Lamanites.

Alma 51:28
 28 And it came to pass that they marched to the borders of the
land Bountiful, driving the Nephites before them and slaying
many.

Alma 51:29
 29 But it came to pass that they were met by Teancum, who had
slain Morianton and had headed his people in his flight.

Alma 51:30
 30 And it came to pass that he headed Amalickiah also, as he was
marching forth with his numerous army that he might take
possession of the land Bountiful, and also the land northward.

Alma 51:31
 31 But behold he met with a disappointment by being repulsed by
Teancum and his men, for they were great warriors; for every man
of Teancum did exceed the Lamanites in their strength and in
their skill of war, insomuch that they did gain advantage over
the Lamanites.

Alma 51:32
 32 And it came to pass that they did harass them, insomuch that
they did slay them even until it was dark.  And it came to pass
that Teancum and his men did pitch their tents in the borders of
the land Bountiful; and Amalickiah did pitch his tents in the
borders on the beach by the seashore, and after this manner were
they driven.

Alma 51:33
 33 And it came to pass that when the night had come, Teancum and
his servant stole forth and went out by night, and went into the
camp of Amalickiah; and behold, sleep had overpowered them
because of their much fatigue, which was caused by the labors and
heat of the day.

Alma 51:34
 34 And it came to pass that Teancum stole privily into the tent
of the king, and put a javelin to his heart; and he did cause the
death of the king immediately that he did not awake his servants.

Alma 51:35
 35 And he returned again privily to his own camp, and behold,
his men were asleep, and he awoke them and told them all the
things that he had done.

Alma 51:36
 36 And he caused that his armies should stand in readiness, lest
the Lamanites had awakened and should come upon them.

Alma 51:37
 37 And thus endeth the twenty and fifth year of the reign of the
judges over the people of Nephi; and thus endeth the days of
Amalickiah.



Alma 52
Chapter 52

Alma 52:1
 1 And now, it came to pass in the twenty and sixth year of the
reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, behold, when the
Lamanites awoke on the first morning of the first month, behold,
they found Amalickiah was dead in his own tent; and they also saw
that Teancum was ready to give them battle on that day.

Alma 52:2
 2 And now, when the Lamanites saw this they were affrighted; and
they abandoned their design in marching into the land northward,
and retreated with all their army into the city of Mulek, and
sought protection in their fortifications.

Alma 52:3
 3 And it came to pass that the brother of Amalickiah was
appointed king over the people; and his name was Ammoron; thus
king Ammoron, the brother of king Amalickiah, was appointed to
reign in his stead.

Alma 52:4
 4 And it came to pass that he did command that his people should
maintain those cities, which they had taken by the shedding of
blood; for they had not taken any cities save they had lost much
blood.

Alma 52:5
 5 And now, Teancum saw that the Lamanites were determined to
maintain those cities which they had taken, and those parts of
the land which they had obtained possession of; and also seeing
the enormity of their number, Teancum thought it was not
expedient that he should attempt to attack them in their forts.

Alma 52:6
 6 But he kept his men round about, as if making preparations for
war; yea, and truly he was preparing to defend himself against
them, by casting up walls round about and preparing places of
resort.

Alma 52:7
 7 And it came to pass that he kept thus preparing for war until
Moroni had sent a large number of men to strengthen his army.

Alma 52:8
 8 And Moroni also sent orders unto him that he should retain all
the prisoners who fell into his hands; for as the Lamanites had
taken many prisoners, that he should retain all the prisoners of
the Lamanites as a ransom for those whom the Lamanites had taken.

Alma 52:9
 9 And he also sent orders unto him that he should fortify the
land Bountiful, and secure the narrow pass which led into the
land northward, lest the Lamanites should obtain that point and
should have power to harass them on every side.

Alma 52:10
 10 And Moroni also sent unto him, desiring him that he would be
faithful in maintaining that quarter of the land, and that he
would seek every opportunity to scourge the Lamanites in that
quarter, as much as was in his power, that perhaps he might take
again by stratagem or some other way those cities which had been
taken out of their hands; and that he also would fortify and
strengthen the cities round about, which had not fallen into the
hands of the Lamanites.

Alma 52:11
 11 And he also said unto him,


Alma 52:12
 12 Now, the king (Ammoron) had departed out of the land of
Zarahemla, and had made known unto the queen concerning the death
of his brother, and had gathered together a large number of men,
and had marched forth against the Nephites on the borders by the
west sea.

Alma 52:13
 13 And thus he was endeavoring to harass the Nephites, and to
draw away a part of their forces to that part of the land, while
he had commanded those whom he had left to possess the cities
which he had taken, that they should also harass the Nephites on
the borders by the east sea, and should take possession of their
lands as much as it was in their power, according to the power of
their armies.

Alma 52:14
 14 And thus were the Nephites in those dangerous circumstances
in the ending of the twenty and sixth year of the reign of the
judges over the people of Nephi.

Alma 52:15
 15 But behold, it came to pass in the twenty and seventh year of
the reign of the judges, that Teancum, by the command of
Moroni--who had established armies to protect the south and the
west borders of the land, and had begun his march towards the
land Bountiful, that he might assist Teancum with his men in
retaking the cities which they had lost--

Alma 52:16
 16 And it came to pass that Teancum had received orders to make
an attack upon the city of Mulek, and retake it if it were
possible.

Alma 52:17
 17 And it came to pass that Teancum made preparations to make an
attack upon the city of Mulek, and march forth with his army
against the Lamanites; but he saw that it was impossible that he
could overpower them while they were in their fortifications;
therefore he abandoned his designs and returned again to the city
Bountiful, to wait for the coming of Moroni, that he might
receive strength to his army.

Alma 52:18
 18 And it came to pass that Moroni did arrive with his army at
the land of Bountiful, in the latter end of the twenty and
seventh year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi.

Alma 52:19
 19 And in the commencement of the twenty and eighth year, Moroni
and Teancum and many of the chief captains held a council of
war--what they should do to cause the Lamanites to come out
against them to battle; or that they might by some means flatter
them out of their strongholds, that they might gain advantage
over them and take again the city of Mulek.

Alma 52:20
 20 And it came to pass they sent embassies to the army of the
Lamanites, which protected the city of Mulek, to their leader,
whose name was Jacob, desiring him that he would come out with
his armies to meet them upon the plains between the two cities. 
But behold, Jacob, who was a Zoramite, would not come out with
his army to meet them upon the plains.

Alma 52:21
 21 And it came to pass that Moroni, having no hopes of meeting
them upon fair grounds, therefore, he resolved upon a plan that
he might decoy the Lamanites out of their strongholds.

Alma 52:22
 22 Therefore he caused that Teancum should take a small number
of men and march down near the seashore; and Moroni and his army,
by night, marched in the wilderness, on the west of the city
Mulek; and thus, on the morrow, when the guards of the Lamanites
had discovered Teancum, they ran and told it unto Jacob, their
leader.

Alma 52:23
 23 And it came to pass that the armies of the Lamanites did
march forth against Teancum, supposing by their numbers to
overpower Teancum because of the smallness of his numbers.  And
as Teancum saw the armies of the Lamanites coming out against him
he began to retreat down by the seashore, northward.

Alma 52:24
 24 And it came to pass that when the Lamanites saw that he began
to flee, they took courage and pursued them with vigor.  And
while Teancum was thus leading away the Lamanites who were
pursuing them in vain, behold, Moroni commanded that a part of
his army who were with him should march forth into the city, and
take possession of it.

Alma 52:25
 25 And thus they did, and slew all those who had been left to
protect the city, yea, all those who would not yield up their
weapons of war.

Alma 52:26
 26 And thus Moroni had obtained possession of the city Mulek
with a part of his army, while he marched with the remainder to
meet the Lamanites when they should return from the pursuit of
Teancum.

Alma 52:27
 27 And it came to pass that the Lamanites did pursue Teancum
until they came near the city Bountiful, and then they were met
by Lehi and a small army, which had been left to protect the city
Bountiful.

Alma 52:28
 28 And now behold, when the chief captains of the Lamanites had
beheld Lehi with his army coming against them, they fled in much
confusion, lest perhaps they should not obtain the city Mulek
before Lehi should overtake them; for they were wearied because
of their march, and the men of Lehi were fresh.

Alma 52:29
 29 Now the Lamanites did not know that Moroni had been in their
rear with his army; and all they feared was Lehi and his men.

Alma 52:30
 30 Now Lehi was not desirous to overtake them till they should
meet Moroni and his army.

Alma 52:31
 31 And it came to pass that before the Lamanites had retreated
far they were surrounded by the Nephites, by the men of Moroni on
one hand, and the men of Lehi on the other, all of whom were
fresh and full of strength; but the Lamanites were wearied
because of their long march.

Alma 52:32
 32 And Moroni commanded his men that they should fall upon them
until they had given up their weapons of war.

Alma 52:33
 33 And it came to pass that Jacob, being their leader, being
also a Zoramite, and having an unconquerable spirit, he led the
Lamanites forth to battle with exceeding fury against Moroni.

Alma 52:34
 34 Moroni being in their course of march, therefore Jacob was
determined to slay them and cut his way through to the city of
Mulek.  But behold, Moroni and his men were more powerful;
therefore they did not give way before the Lamanites.

Alma 52:35
 35 And it came to pass that they fought on both hands with
exceeding fury; and there were many slain on both sides; yea, and
Moroni was wounded and Jacob was killed.

Alma 52:36
 36 And Lehi pressed upon their rear with such fury with his
strong men, that the Lamanites in the rear delivered up their
weapons of war; and the remainder of them, being much confused,
knew not whither to go or to strike.

Alma 52:37
 37 Now Moroni seeing their confusion, he said unto them: If ye
will bring forth your weapons of war and deliver them up, behold
we will forbear shedding your blood.

Alma 52:38
 38 And it came to pass that when the Lamanites had heard these
words, their chief captains, all those who were not slain, came
forth and threw down their weapons of war at the feet of Moroni,
and also commanded their men that they should do the same.

Alma 52:39
 39 But behold, there were many that would not; and those who
would not deliver up their swords were taken and bound, and their
weapons of war were taken from them, and they were compelled to
march with their brethren forth into the land Bountiful.

Alma 52:40
 40 And now the number of prisoners who were taken exceeded more
than the number of those who had been slain, yea, more than those
who had been slain on both sides.


Alma 53
Chapter 53

Alma 53:1
 1 And it came to pass that they did set guards over the
prisoners of the Lamanites, and did compel them to go forth and
bury their dead, yea, and also the dead of the Nephites who were
slain; and Moroni placed men over them to guard them while they
should perform their labors.

Alma 53:2
 2 And Moroni went to the city of Mulek with Lehi, and took
command of the city and gave it unto Lehi.  Now behold, this Lehi
was a man who had been with Moroni in the more part of all his
battles; and he was a man like unto Moroni, and they rejoiced in
each other's safety; yea, they were beloved by each other, and
also beloved by all the people of Nephi.

Alma 53:3
 3 And it came to pass that after the Lamanites had finished
burying their dead and also the dead of the Nephites, they were
marched back into the land Bountiful; and Teancum, by the orders
of Moroni, caused that they should commence laboring in digging a
ditch round about the land, or the city, Bountiful.

Alma 53:4
 4 And he caused that they should build a breastwork of timbers
upon the inner bank of the ditch; and they cast up dirt out of
the ditch against the breastwork of timbers; and thus they did
cause the Lamanites to labor until they had encircled the city of
Bountiful round about with a strong wall of timbers and earth, to
an exceeding height.

Alma 53:5
 5 And this city became an exceeding stronghold ever after; and
in this city they did guard the prisoners of the Lamanites; yea,
even within a wall which they had caused them to build with their
own hands.  Now Moroni was compelled to cause the Lamanites to
labor, because it was easy to guard them while at their labor;
and he desired all his forces when he should make an attack upon
the Lamanites.

Alma 53:6
 6 And it came to pass that Moroni had thus gained a victory over
one of the greatest of the armies of the Lamanites, and had
obtained possession of the city of Mulek, which was one of the
strongest holds of the Lamanites in the land of Nephi; and thus
he had also built a stronghold to retain his prisoners.

Alma 53:7
 7 And it came to pass that he did no more attempt a battle with
the Lamanites in that year, but he did employ his men in
preparing for war, yea, and in making fortifications to guard
against the Lamanites, yea, and also delivering their women and
their children from famine and affliction, and providing food for
their armies.

Alma 53:8
 8 And now it came to pass that the armies of the Lamanites, on
the west sea, south, while in the absence of Moroni on account of
some intrigue amongst the Nephites, which caused dissensions
amongst them, had gained some ground over the Nephites, yea,
insomuch that they had obtained possession of a number of their
cities in that part of the land.

Alma 53:9
 9 And thus because of iniquity amongst themselves, yea, because
of dissensions and intrigue among themselves they were placed in
the most dangerous circumstances.

Alma 53:10
 10 And now behold, I have somewhat to say concerning the people
of Ammon, who in the beginning, were Lamanites; but by Ammon and
his brethren, or rather by the power and word of God, they had
been converted unto the Lord; and they had been brought down into
the land of Zarahemla, and had ever since been protected by the
Nephites.

Alma 53:11
 11 And because of their oath they had been kept from taking up
arms against their brethren; for they had taken an oath that they
never would shed blood more; and according to their oath they
would have perished; yea, they would have suffered themselves to
have fallen into the hands of their brethren, had it not been for
the pity and the exceeding love which Ammon and his brethren had
had for them.

Alma 53:12
 12 And for this cause they were brought down into the land of
Zarahemla; and they ever had been protected by the Nephites.

Alma 53:13
 13 But it came to pass that when they saw the danger, and the
many afflictions and tribulations which the Nephites bore for
them, they were moved with compassion and were desirous to take
up arms in the defence of their country.

Alma 53:14
 14 But behold, as they were about to take their weapons of war,
they were overpowered by the persuasions of Helaman and his
brethren, for they were about to break the oath which they had
made.

Alma 53:15
 15 And Helaman feared lest by so doing they should lose their
souls; therefore all those who had entered into this covenant
were compelled to behold their brethren wade through their
afflictions, in their dangerous circumstances at this time.

Alma 53:16
 16 But behold, it came to pass they had many sons, who had not
entered into a covenant that they would not take their weapons of
war to defend themselves against their enemies; therefore they
did assemble themselves together at this time, as many as were
able to take up arms, and they called themselves Nephites.

Alma 53:17
 17 And they entered into a covenant to fight for the liberty of
the Nephites, yea, to protect the land unto the laying down of
their lives; yea, even they covenanted that they never would give
up their liberty, but they would fight in all cases to protect
the Nephites and themselves from bondage.

Alma 53:18
 18 Now behold, there were two thousand of those young men, who
entered into this covenant and took their weapons of war to
defend their country.

Alma 53:19
 19 And now behold, as they never had hitherto been a
disadvantage to the Nephites, they became now at this period of
time also a great support; for they took their weapons of war,
and they would that Helaman should be their leader.

Alma 53:20
 20 And they were all young men, and they were exceedingly
valiant for courage, and also for strength and activity; but
behold, this was not all--they were men who were true at all
times in whatsoever thing they were entrusted.

Alma 53:21
 21 Yea, they were men of truth and soberness, for they had been
taught to keep the commandments of God and to walk uprightly
before him.

Alma 53:22
 22 And now it came to pass that Helaman did march at the head of
his two thousand stripling soldiers, to the support of the people
in the borders of the land on the south by the west sea.

Alma 53:23
 23 And thus ended the twenty and eighth year of the reign of the
judges over the people of Nephi.



Alma 54
Chapter 54

Alma 54:1
 1 And now it came to pass in the commencement of the twenty and
ninth year of the judges, that Ammoron sent unto Moroni desiring
that he would exchange prisoners.

Alma 54:2
 2 And it came to pass that Moroni felt to rejoice exceedingly at
this request, for he desired the provisions which were imparted
for the support of the Lamanite prisoners for the support of his
own people; and he also desired his own people for the
strengthening of his army.

Alma 54:3
 3 Now the Lamanites had taken many women and children, and there
was not a woman nor a child among all the prisoners of Moroni, or
the prisoners whom Moroni had taken; therefore Moroni resolved
upon a stratagem to obtain as many prisoners of the Nephites from
the Lamanites as it were possible.

Alma 54:4
 4 Therefore he wrote an epistle, and sent it by the servant of
Ammoron, the same who had brought an epistle to Moroni.  Now
these are the words which he wrote unto Ammoron, saying:



Alma 54:15
 15 Now it came to pass that Ammoron, when he had received this
epistle, was angry; and he wrote another epistle unto Moroni, and
these are the words which he wrote, saying:



Alma 55
Chapter 55

Alma 55:1
 1 Now it came to pass that when Moroni had received this epistle
he was more angry, because he knew that Ammoron had a perfect
knowledge of his fraud; yea, he knew that Ammoron knew that it
was not a just cause that had caused him to wage a war against
the people of Nephi.

Alma 55:2
 2 And he said: 


Alma 55:4
 4 And now it came to pass that when Moroni had said these words,
he caused that a search should be made among his men, that
perhaps he might find a man who was a descendant of Laman among
them.

Alma 55:5
 5 And it came to pass that they found one, whose name was Laman;
and he was one of the servants of the king who was murdered by
Amalickiah.

Alma 55:6
 6 Now Moroni caused that Laman and a small number of his men
should go forth unto the guards who were over the Nephites.

Alma 55:7
 7 Now the Nephites were guarded in the city of Gid; therefore
Moroni appointed Laman and caused that a small number of men
should go with him.

Alma 55:8
 8 And when it was evening Laman went to the guards who were over
the Nephites, and behold, they saw him coming and they hailed
him; but he saith unto them: Fear not; behold, I am a Lamanite. 
Behold, we have escaped from the Nephites, and they sleep; and
behold we have taken of their wine and brought with us.

Alma 55:9
 9 Now when the Lamanites heard these words they received him
with joy; and they said unto him: Give us of your wine, that we
may drink; we are glad that ye have thus taken wine with you for
we are weary.

Alma 55:10
 10 But Laman said unto them:


But this saying only made them
more desirous to drink of the wine;

Alma 55:11
 11 For, said they: We are weary, therefore let us take of the
wine, and by and by we shall receive wine for our rations, which
will strengthen us to go against the Nephites.

Alma 55:12
 12 And Laman said unto them: 


Alma 55:13
 13 And it came to pass that they did take of the wine freely;
and it was pleasant to their taste, therefore they took of it
more freely; and it was strong, having been prepared in its
strength.

Alma 55:14
 14 And it came to pass they did drink and were merry, and by and
by they were all drunken.

Alma 55:15
 15 And now when Laman and his men saw that they were all
drunken, and were in a deep sleep, they returned to Moroni and
told him all the things that had happened.

Alma 55:16
 16 And now this was according to the design of Moroni.  And
Moroni had prepared his men with weapons of war; and he went to
the city Gid, while the Lamanites were in a deep sleep and
drunken, and cast in weapons of war unto the prisoners, insomuch
that they were all armed;

Alma 55:17
 17 Yea, even to their women, and all those of their children, as
many as were able to use a weapon of war, when Moroni had armed
all those prisoners; and all those things were done in a profound
silence.

Alma 55:18
 18 But had they awakened the Lamanites, behold they were drunken
and the Nephites could have slain them.

Alma 55:19
 19 But behold, this was not the desire of Moroni; he did not
delight in murder or bloodshed, but he delighted in the saving of
his people from destruction; and for this cause he might not
bring upon him injustice, he would not fall upon the Lamanites
and destroy them in their drunkenness.

Alma 55:20
 20 But he had obtained his desires; for he had armed those
prisoners of the Nephites who were within the wall of the city,
and had given them power to gain possession of those parts which
were within the walls.

Alma 55:21
 21 And then he caused the men who were with him to withdraw a
pace from them, and surround the armies of the Lamanites.

Alma 55:22
 22 Now behold this was done in the night-time, so that when the
Lamanites awoke in the morning they beheld that they were
surrounded by the Nephites without, and that their prisoners were
armed within.

Alma 55:23
 23 And thus they saw that the Nephites had power over them; and
in these circumstances they found that it was not expedient that
they should fight with the Nephites; therefore their chief
captains demanded their weapons of war, and they brought them
forth and cast them at the feet of the Nephites, pleading for
mercy.

Alma 55:24
 24 Now behold, this was the desire of Moroni.  He took them
prisoners of war, and took possession of the city, and caused
that all the prisoners should be liberated, who were Nephites;
and they did join the army of Moroni, and were a great strength
to his army.

Alma 55:25
 25 And it came to pass that he did cause the Lamanites, whom he
had taken prisoners, that they should commence a labor in
strengthening the fortifications round about the city Gid.

Alma 55:26
 26 And it came to pass that when he had fortified the city Gid,
according to his desires, he caused that his prisoners should be
taken to the city Bountiful; and he also guarded that city with
an exceedingly strong force.

Alma 55:27
 27 And it came to pass that they did, notwithstanding all the
intrigues of the Lamanites, keep and protect all the prisoners
whom they had taken, and also maintain all the ground and the
advantage which they had retaken.

Alma 55:28
 28 And it came to pass that the Nephites began again to be
victorious, and to reclaim their rights and their privileges.

Alma 55:29
 29 Many time did the Lamanites attempt to encircle them about by
night, but in these attempts they did lose many prisoners.

Alma 55:30
 30 And many times did they attempt to administer of their wine
to the Nephites, that they might destroy them with poison or with
drunkenness.

Alma 55:31
 31 But behold, the Nephites were not slow to remember the Lord
their God in this their time of affliction.  They could not be
taken in their snares; yea, they would not partake of their wine,
save they had first given to some of the Lamanite prisoners.

Alma 55:32
 32 And they were thus cautious that no poison should be
administered among them; for if their wine would poison a
Lamanite it would also poison a Nephite; and thus they did try
all their liquors.

Alma 55:33
 33 And now it came to pass that it was expedient for Moroni to
make preparations to attack the city Morianton; for behold, the
Lamanites had, by their labors, fortified the city Morianton
until it had become an exceeding stronghold.

Alma 55:34
 34 And they were continually bringing new forces into that city,
and also new supplies of provisions.

Alma 55:35
 35 And thus ended the twenty and ninth year of the reign of the
judges over the people of Nephi.


Alma 56
Chapter 56

Alma 56:1
 1 And now it came to pass in the commencement of the thirtieth
year of the reign of the judges, on the second day in the first
month, Moroni received an epistle from Helaman, stating the
affairs of the people in that quarter of the land.

Alma 56:2
 2 And these are the words which he wrote, saying:



Alma 59
Chapter 59

Alma 59:1
 1 Now it came to pass in the thirtieth year of the reign of the
judges over the people of Nephi, after Moroni had received and
had read Helaman's epistle, he was exceedingly rejoiced because
of the welfare, yea, the exceeding success which Helaman had had,
in obtaining those lands which were lost.

Alma 59:2
 2 Yea, and he did make it known unto all his people, in all the
land round about in that part where he was, that they might
rejoice also.

Alma 59:3
 3 And it came to pass that he immediately sent an epistle to
Pahoran, desiring that he should cause men to be gathered
together to strengthen Helaman, or the armies of Helaman,
insomuch that he might with ease maintain that part of the land
which he had been so miraculously prospered in regaining.

Alma 59:4
 4 And it came to pass when Moroni had sent this epistle to the
land of Zarahemla, he began again to lay a plan that he might
obtain the remainder of those possessions and cities which the
Lamanites had taken from them.

Alma 59:5
 5 And it came to pass that while Moroni was thus making
preparations to go against the Lamanites to battle, behold, the
people of Nephihah, who were gathered together from the city of
Moroni and the city of Lehi and the city of Morianton, were
attacked by the Lamanites.

Alma 59:6
 6 Yea, even those who had been compelled to flee from the land
of Manti, and from the land round about, had come over and joined
the Lamanites in this part of the land.

Alma 59:7
 7 And thus being exceedingly numerous, yea, and receiving
strength from day to day, by the command of Ammoron they came
forth against the people of Nephihah, and they did begin to slay
them with an exceedingly great slaughter.

Alma 59:8
 8 And their armies were so numerous that the remainder of the
people of Nephihah were obliged to flee before them; and they
came even and joined the army of Moroni.

Alma 59:9
 9 And now as Moroni had supposed that there should be men sent
to the city Nephihah, to the assistance of the people to maintain
that city, and knowing that it was easier to keep the city from
falling into the hands of the Lamanites than to retake it from
them, he supposed that they would easily maintain that city.

Alma 59:10
 10 Therefore he retained all his force to maintain those places
which he had recovered.

Alma 59:11
 11 And now, when Moroni saw that the city of Nephihah was lost
he was exceedingly sorrowful, and began to doubt, because of the
wickedness of the people, whether they should not fall into the
hands of their brethren.

Alma 59:12
 12 Now this was the case with all his chief captains.  They
doubted and marveled also because of the wickedness of the
people, and this because of the success of the Lamanites over
them.

Alma 59:13
 13 And it came to pass that Moroni was angry with the
government, because of their indifference concerning the freedom
of their country.

Alma 60
Chapter 60

Alma 60:1
 1 And it came to pass that he wrote again to the governor of the
land, who was Pahoran, and these are the words which he wrote,
saying:


Alma 61
Chapter 61

Alma 61:1
 1 Behold, now it came to pass that soon after Moroni had sent
his epistle unto the chief governor, he received an epistle from
Pahoran, the chief governor.  And these are the words which he
received:



Alma 62
Chapter 62

Alma 62:1
 1 And now it came to pass that when Moroni had received this
epistle his heart did take courage, and was filled with
exceedingly great joy because of the faithfulness of Pahoran,
that he was not also a traitor to the freedom and cause of his
country.

Alma 62:2
 2 But he did also mourn exceedingly because of the iniquity of
those who had driven Pahoran from the judgment-seat, yea, in fine
because of those who had rebelled against their country and also
their God.

Alma 62:3
 3 And it came to pass that Moroni took a small number of men,
according to the desire of Pahoran, and gave Lehi and Teancum
command over the remainder of his army, and took his march
towards the land of Gideon.

Alma 62:4
 4 And he did raise the standard of liberty in whatsoever place
he did enter, and gained whatsoever force he could in all his
march towards the land of Gideon.

Alma 62:5
 5 And it came to pass that thousands did flock unto his
standard, and did take up their swords in the defence of their
freedom, that they might not come into bondage.

Alma 62:6
 6 And thus, when Moroni had gathered together whatsoever men he
could in all his march, he came to the land of Gideon; and
uniting his forces with those of Pahoran they became exceedingly
strong, even stronger than the men of Pachus, who was the king of
those dissenters who had driven the freemen out of the land of
Zarahemla and had taken possession of the land.

Alma 62:7
 7 And it came to pass that Moroni and Pahoran went down with
their armies into the land of Zarahemla, and went forth against
the city, and did meet the men of Pachus, insomuch that they did
come to battle.

Alma 62:8
 8 And behold, Pachus was slain and his men were taken prisoners,
and Pahoran was restored to his judgment-seat.

Alma 62:9
 9 And the men of Pachus received their trial, according to the
law, and also those king-men who had been taken and cast into
prison; and they were executed according to the law; yea, those
men of Pachus and those king-men, whosoever would not take up
arms in the defence of their country, but would fight against it,
were put to death.

Alma 62:10
 10 And thus it became expedient that this law should be strictly
observed for the safety of their country; yea, and whosoever was
found denying their freedom was speedily executed according to
the law.

Alma 62:11
 11 And thus ended the thirtieth year of the reign of the judges
over the people of Nephi; Moroni and Pahoran having restored
peace to the land of Zarahemla, among their own people, having
inflicted death upon all those who were not true to the cause of
freedom.

Alma 62:12
 12 And it came to pass in the commencement of the thirty and
first year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi,
Moroni immediately caused that provisions should be sent, and
also an army of six thousand men should be sent unto Helaman, to
assist him in preserving that part of the land.

Alma 62:13
 13 And he also caused that an army of six thousand men, with a
sufficient quantity of food, should be sent to the armies of Lehi
and Teancum.  And it came to pass that this was done to fortify
the land against the Lamanites.

Alma 62:14
 14 And it came to pass that Moroni and Pahoran, leaving a large
body of men in the land of Zarahemla, took their march with a
large body of men towards the land of Nephihah, being determined
to overthrow the Lamanites in that city.

Alma 62:15
 15 And it came to pass that as they were marching towards the
land, they took a large body of men of the Lamanites, and slew
many of them, and took their provisions and their weapons of war.

Alma 62:16
 16 And it came to pass after they had taken them, they caused
them to enter into a covenant that they would no more take up
their weapons of war against the Nephites.

Alma 62:17
 17 And when they had entered into this covenant they sent them
to dwell with the people of Ammon, and they were in number about
four thousand who had not been slain.

Alma 62:18
 18 And it came to pass that when they had sent them away they
pursued their march towards the land of Nephihah.  And it came to
pass that when they had come to the city of Nephihah, they did
pitch their tents in the plains of Nephihah, which is near the
city of Nephihah.

Alma 62:19
 19 Now Moroni was desirous that the Lamanites should come out to
battle against them, upon the plains; but the Lamanites, knowing
of their exceedingly great courage, and beholding the greatness
of their numbers, therefore they durst not come out against them;
therefore they did not come to battle in that day.

Alma 62:20
 20 And when the night came, Moroni went forth in the darkness of
the night, and came upon the top of the wall to spy out in what
part of the city the Lamanites did camp with their army.

Alma 62:21
 21 And it came to pass that they were on the east, by the
entrance; and they were all asleep.  And now Moroni returned to
his army, and caused that they should prepare in haste strong
cords and ladders, to be let down from the top of the wall into
the inner part of the wall.

Alma 62:22
 22 And it came to pass that Moroni caused that his men should
march forth and come upon the top of the wall, and let themselves
down into that part of the city, yea, even on the west, where the
Lamanites did not camp with their armies.

Alma 62:23
 23 And it came to pass that they were all let down into the city
by night, by the means of their strong cords and their ladders;
thus when the morning came they were all within the walls of the
city.

Alma 62:24
 24 And now, when the Lamanites awoke and saw that the armies of
Moroni were within the walls, they were affrighted exceedingly,
insomuch that they did flee out by the pass.

Alma 62:25
 25 And now when Moroni saw that they were fleeing before him, he
did cause that his men should march forth against them, and slew
many, and surrounded many others, and took them prisoners; and
the remainder of them fled into the land of Moroni, which was in
the borders by the seashore.

Alma 62:26
 26 Thus had Moroni and Pahoran obtained the possession of the
city of Nephihah without the loss of one soul; and there were
many of the Lamanites who were slain.

Alma 62:27
 27 Now it came to pass that many of the Lamanites that were
prisoners were desirous to join the people of Ammon and become a
free people.

Alma 62:28
 28 And it came to pass that as many as were desirous, unto them
it was granted according to their desires.

Alma 62:29
 29 Therefore, all the prisoners of the Lamanites did join the
people of Ammon, and did begin to labor exceedingly, tilling the
ground, raising all manner of grain, and flocks and herds of
every kind; and thus were the Nephites relieved from a great
burden; yea, insomuch that they were relieved from all the
prisoners of the Lamanites.

Alma 62:30
 30 Now it came to pass that Moroni, after he had obtained
possession of the city of Nephihah, having taken many prisoners,
which did reduce the armies of the Lamanites exceedingly, and
having regained many of the Nephites who had been taken
prisoners, which did strengthen the army of Moroni exceedingly;
therefore Moroni went forth from the land of Nephihah to the land
of Lehi.

Alma 62:31
 31 And it came to pass that when the Lamanites saw that Moroni
was coming against them, they were again frightened and fled
before the army of Moroni.

Alma 62:32
 32 And it came to pass that Moroni and his army did pursue them
from city to city, until they were met by Lehi and Teancum; and
the Lamanites fled from Lehi and Teancum, even down upon the
borders by the seashore, until they came to the land of Moroni.

Alma 62:33
 33 And the armies of the Lamanites were all gathered together,
insomuch that they were all in one body in the land of Moroni.  
Now, Ammoron, the king of the Lamanites, was also with them.

Alma 62:34
 34 And it came to pass that Moroni and Lehi and Teancum did
encamp with their armies round about in the borders of the land
of Moroni, insomuch that the Lamanites were encircled about in
the borders by the wilderness on the south, and in the borders by
the wilderness on the east.

Alma 62:35
 35 And thus they did encamp for the night.  For behold, the
Nephites and the Lamanites also were weary because of the
greatness of the march; therefore they did not resolve upon any
stratagem in the night-time, save it were Teancum; for he was
exceedingly angry with Ammoron, insomuch that he considered that
Ammoron, and Amalickiah his brother, had been the cause of this
great and lasting war between them and the Lamanites, which had
been the cause of so much war and bloodshed, yea, and so much
famine.

Alma 62:36
 36 And it came to pass that Teancum in his anger did go forth
into the camp of the Lamanites, and did let himself down over the
walls of the city.  And he went forth with a cord, from place to
place, insomuch that he did find the king; and he did cast a
javelin at him, which did pierce him near the heart.  But behold,
the king did awaken his servants before he died, insomuch that
they did pursue Teancum, and slew him.

Alma 62:37
 37 Now it came to pass that when Lehi and Moroni knew that
Teancum was dead they were exceedingly sorrowful; for behold, he
had been a man who had fought valiantly for his country, yea, a
true friend to liberty; and he had suffered very many exceedingly
sore afflictions.  But behold, he was dead, and had gone the way
of all the earth.

Alma 62:38
 38 Now it came to pass that Moroni marched forth on the morrow,
and came upon the Lamanites, insomuch that they did slay them
with a great slaughter; and they did drive them out of the land;
and they did flee, even that they did not return at that time
against the Nephites.

Alma 62:39
 39 And thus ended the thirty and first year of the reign of the
judges over the people of Nephi; and thus they had had wars, and
bloodsheds, and famine, and affliction, for the space of many
years.

Alma 62:40
 40 And there had been murders, and contentions, and dissensions,
and all manner of iniquity among the people of Nephi;
nevertheless for the righteous' sake, yea, because of the prayers
of the righteous, they were spared.

Alma 62:41
 41 But behold, because of the exceedingly great length of the
war between the Nephites and the Lamanites many had become
hardened, because of the exceedingly great length of the war; and
many were softened because of their afflictions, insomuch that
they did humble themselves before God, even in the depth of
humility.

Alma 62:42
 42 And it came to pass that after Moroni had fortified those
parts of the land which were most exposed to the Lamanites, until
they were sufficiently strong, he returned to the city of
Zarahemla; and also Helaman returned to the place of his
inheritance; and there was once more peace established among the
people of Nephi.

Alma 62:43
 43 And Moroni yielded up the command of his armies into the
hands of his son, whose name was Moronihah; and he retired to his
own house that he might spend the remainder of his days in peace.

Alma 62:44
 44 And Pahoran did return to his judgment-seat; and Helaman did
take upon him again to preach unto the people the word of God;
for because of so many wars and contentions it had become
expedient that a regulation should be made again in the church.

Alma 62:45
 45 Therefore, Helaman and his brethren went forth, and did
declare the word of God with much power unto the convincing of
many people of their wickedness, which did cause them to repent
of their sins and to be baptized unto the Lord their God.

Alma 62:46
 46 And it came to pass that they did establish again the church
of God, throughout all the land.

Alma 62:47
 47 Yea, and regulations were made concerning the law.  And their
judges, and their chief judges were chosen.

Alma 62:48
 48 And the people of Nephi began to prosper again in the land,
and began to multiply and to wax exceedingly strong again in the
land.  And they began to grow exceedingly rich.

Alma 62:49
 49 But notwithstanding their riches, or their strength, or their
prosperity, they were not lifted up in the pride of their eyes;
neither were they slow to remember the Lord their God; but they
did humble themselves exceedingly before him.

Alma 62:50
 50 Yea, they did remember how great things the Lord had done for
them, that he had delivered them from death, and from bonds, and
from prisons, and from all manner of afflictions and he had
delivered them out of the hands of their enemies.

Alma 62:51
 51 And they did pray unto the Lord their God continually,
insomuch that the Lord did bless them, according to his word, so
that they did wax strong and prosper in the land.

Alma 62:52
 52 And it came to pass that all these things were done.  And
Helaman died, in the thirty and fifth year of the reign of the
judges over the people of Nephi.

Alma 63
Chapter 63

Alma 63:1
 1 And it came to pass in the commencement of the thirty and
sixth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi,
that Shiblon took possession of those sacred things which had
been delivered unto Helaman by Alma.

Alma 63:2
 2 And he was a just man, and he did walk uprightly before God;
and he did observe to do good continually, to keep the
commandments of the Lord his God; and also did his brother.

Alma 63:3
 3 And it came to pass that Moroni died also.  And thus ended the
thirty and sixth year of the reign of the judges.

Alma 63:4
 4 And it came to pass that in the thirty and seventh year of the
reign of the judges, there was a large company of men, even to
the amount of five thousand and four hundred men, with their
wives and their children, departed out of the land of Zarahemla
into the land which was northward.

Alma 63:5
 5 And it came to pass that Hagoth, he being an exceedingly
curious man, therefore he went forth and built him an exceedingly
large ship, on the borders of the land Bountiful, by the land
Desolation, and launched it forth into the west sea, by the
narrow neck which led into the land northward.

Alma 63:6
 6 And behold, there were many of the Nephites who did enter
therein and did sail forth with much provisions, and also many
women and children; and they took their course northward.  And
thus ended the thirty and seventh year.

Alma 63:7
 7 And in the thirty and eighth year, this man built other ships.

And the first ship did also return, and many more people did
enter into it; and they also took much provisions, and set out
again to the land northward.

Alma 63:8
 8 And it came to pass that they were never heard of more.  And
we suppose that they were drowned in the depths of the sea.  And
it came to pass that one other ship also did sail forth; and
whither she did go we know not.

Alma 63:9
 9 And it came to pass that in this year there were many people
who went forth into the land northward.  And thus ended the
thirty and eighth year.

Alma 63:10
 10 And it came to pass in the thirty and ninth year of the reign
of the judges, Shiblon died also, and Corianton had gone forth to
the land northward in a ship, to carry forth provisions unto the
people who had gone forth into that land.

Alma 63:11
 11 Therefore it became expedient for Shiblon to confer those
sacred things, before his death, upon the son of Helaman, who was
called Helaman, being called after the name of his father.

Alma 63:12
 12 Now behold, all those engravings which were in the possession
of Helaman were written and sent forth among the children of men
throughout all the land, save it were those parts which had been
commanded by Alma should not go forth.

Alma 63:13
 13 Nevertheless, these things were to be kept sacred, and handed
down from one generation to another; therefore, in this year,
they had been conferred upon Helaman, before the death of
Shiblon.

Alma 63:14
 14 And it came to pass also in this year that there were some
dissenters who had gone forth unto the Lamanites; and they were
stirred up again to anger against the Nephites.

Alma 63:15
 15 And also in this same year they came down with a numerous
army to war against the people of Moronihah, or against the army
of Moronihah, in the which they were beaten and driven back again
to their own lands, suffering great loss.

Alma 63:16
 16 And thus ended the thirty and ninth year of the reign of the
judges over the people of Nephi.

Alma 63:17
 17 And thus ended the account of Alma, and Helaman his son, and
also Shiblon, who was his son.







