I have seen a vision, in which I know
that Jerusalem is destroyed; and had we remained in Jerusalem we
should also have perished.

2 Nephi 1:5
 5 But, said he, notwithstanding our afflictions, we have
obtained a land of promise, a land which is choice above all
other lands; a land which the Lord God hath covenanted with me
should be a land for the inheritance of my seed.  Yea, the Lord
hath covenanted this land unto me, and to my children forever,
and also all those who should be led out of other countries by
the hand of the Lord.

2 Nephi 1:6
 6 Wherefore, I, Lehi, prophesy according to the workings of the
Spirit which is in me, that there shall none come into this land
save they shall be brought by the hand of the Lord.

2 Nephi 1:7
 7 Wherefore, this land is consecrated unto him whom he shall
bring.  And if it so be that they shall serve him according to
the commandments which he hath given, it shall be a land of
liberty unto them; wherefore, they shall never be brought down
into captivity; if so, it shall be because of iniquity; for if
iniquity shall abound cursed shall be the land for their sakes,
but unto the righteous it shall be blessed forever.

2 Nephi 1:8
 8 And behold, it is wisdom that this land should be kept as yet
from the knowledge of other nations; for behold, many nations
would overrun the land, that there would be no place for an
inheritance.

2 Nephi 1:9
 9 Wherefore, I, Lehi, have obtained a promise, that inasmuch as
those whom the Lord God shall bring out of the land of Jerusalem
shall keep his commandments, they shall prosper upon the face of
this land; and they shall be kept from all other nations, that
they may possess this land unto themselves.  And if it so be that
they shall keep his commandments they shall be blessed upon the
face of this land, and there shall be none to molest them, nor to
take away the land of their inheritance; and they shall dwell
safely forever.

2 Nephi 1:10
 10 But behold, when the time cometh that they shall dwindle in
unbelief, after they have received so great blessings from the
hand of the Lord--having a knowledge of the creation of the
earth, and all men, knowing the great and marvelous works of the
Lord from the creation of the world; having power given them to
do all things by faith; having all the commandments from the
beginning, and having been brought by his infinite goodness into
this precious land of promise--behold, I say, if the day shall
come that they will reject the Holy One of Israel, the true
Messiah, their Redeemer and their God, behold, the judgments of
him that is just shall rest upon them.

2 Nephi 1:11
 11 Yea, he will bring other nations unto them, and he will give
unto them power, and he will take away from them the lands of
their possessions, and he will cause them to be scattered and
smitten.

2 Nephi 1:12
 12 Yea, as one generation passeth to another there shall be
bloodsheds, and great visitations among them; wherefore, my sons,
I would that ye would remember; yea, I would that ye would
hearken unto my words.

2 Nephi 1:13
 13 O that ye would awake; awake from a deep sleep, yea, even
from the sleep of hell, and shake off the awful chains by which
ye are bound, which are the chains which bind the children of
men, that they are carried away captive down to the eternal gulf
of misery and woe.

2 Nephi 1:14
 14 Awake!  and arise from the dust, and hear the words of a
trembling parent, whose limbs ye must soon lay down in the cold
and silent grave, from whence no traveler can return; a few more
days and I go the way of all the earth.

2 Nephi 1:15
 15 But behold, the Lord hath redeemed my soul from hell; I have
beheld his glory, and I am encircled about eternally in the arms
of his love.

2 Nephi 1:16
 16 And I desire that ye should remember to observe the statutes
and the judgments of the Lord; behold, this hath been the anxiety
of my soul from the beginning.

2 Nephi 1:17
 17 My heart hath been weighed down with sorrow from time to
time, for I have feared, lest for the hardness of your hearts the
Lord your God should come out in the fulness of his wrath upon
you, that ye be cut off and destroyed forever;

2 Nephi 1:18
 18 Or, that a cursing should come upon you for the space of many
generations; and ye are visited by sword, and by famine, and are
hated, and are led according to the will and captivity of the
devil.

2 Nephi 1:19
 19 O my sons, that these things might not come upon you, but
that ye might be a choice and a favored people of the Lord.  But
behold, his will be done; for his ways are righteousness forever.

2 Nephi 1:20
 20 And he hath said that: Inasmuch as ye shall keep my
commandments ye shall prosper in the land; but inasmuch as ye
will not keep my commandments ye shall be cut off from my
presence.

2 Nephi 1:21
 21 And now that my soul might have joy in you, and that my heart
might leave this world with gladness because of you, that I might
not be brought down with grief and sorrow to the grave, arise
from the dust, my sons, and be men, and be determined in one mind
and in one heart, united in all things, that ye may not come down
into captivity;

2 Nephi 1:22
 22 That ye may not be cursed with a sore cursing; and also, that
ye may not incur the displeasure of a just God upon you, unto the
destruction, yea, the eternal destruction of both soul and body.

2 Nephi 1:23
 23 Awake, my sons; put on the armor of righteousness.  Shake off
the chains with which ye are bound, and come forth out of
obscurity, and arise from the dust.

2 Nephi 1:24
 24 Rebel no more against your brother, whose views have been
glorious, and who hath kept the commandments from the time that
we left Jerusalem; and who hath been an instrument in the hands
of God, in bringing us forth into the land of promise; for were
it not for him, we must have perished with hunger in the
wilderness; nevertheless, ye sought to take away his life; yea,
and he hath suffered much sorrow because of you.

2 Nephi 1:25
 25 And I exceedingly fear and tremble because of you, lest he
shall suffer again; for behold, ye have accused him that he
sought power and authority over you; but I know that he hath not
sought for power nor authority over you, but he hath sought the
glory of God, and your own eternal welfare.

2 Nephi 1:26
 26 And ye have murmured because he hath been plain unto you.  Ye
say that he hath used sharpness; ye say that he hath been angry
with you; but behold, his sharpness was the sharpness of the
power of the word of God, which was in him; and that which ye
call anger was the truth, according to that which is in God,
which he could not restrain, manifesting boldly concerning your
iniquities.

2 Nephi 1:27
 27 And it must needs be that the power of God must be with him,
even unto his commanding you that ye must obey.  But behold, it
was not he, but it was the Spirit of the Lord which was in him,
which opened his mouth to utterance that he could not shut it.

2 Nephi 1:28
 28 And now my son, Laman, and also Lemuel and Sam, and also my
sons who are the sons of Ishmael, behold, if ye will hearken unto
the voice of Nephi ye shall not perish.  And if ye will hearken
unto him I leave unto you a blessing, yea, even my first
blessing.

2 Nephi 1:29
 29 But if ye will not hearken unto him I take away my first
blessing, yea, even my blessing, and it shall rest upon him.

2 Nephi 1:30
 30 And now Zoram, I speak unto you: Behold, thou art the servant
of Laban; nevertheless, thou hast been brought out of the land of
Jerusalem, and I know that thou art a true friend unto my son,
Nephi, forever.

2 Nephi 1:31
 31 Wherefore, because thou hast been faithful thy seed shall be
blessed with his seed, that they dwell in prosperity long upon
the face of this land; and nothing, save it shall be iniquity
among them, shall harm or disturb their prosperity upon the face
of this land forever.

2 Nephi 1:32
 32 Wherefore, if ye shall keep the commandments of the Lord, the
Lord hath consecrated this land for the security of thy seed with
the seed of my son.


2 Nephi 2
Chapter 2

2 Nephi 2:1
 1 And now, Jacob, I speak unto you: Thou art my first-born in
the days of my tribulation in the wilderness.  And behold, in thy
childhood thou hast suffered afflictions and much sorrow, because
of the rudeness of thy brethren.

2 Nephi 2:2
 2 Nevertheless, Jacob, my first-born in the wilderness, thou
knowest the greatness of God; and he shall consecrate thine
afflictions for thy gain.

2 Nephi 2:3
 3 Wherefore, thy soul shall be blessed, and thou shalt dwell
safely with thy brother, Nephi; and thy days shall be spent in
the service of thy God.  Wherefore, I know that thou art
redeemed, because of the righteousness of thy Redeemer; for thou
hast beheld that in the fulness of time he cometh to bring
salvation unto men.

2 Nephi 2:4
 4 And thou hast beheld in thy youth his glory; wherefore, thou
art blessed even as they unto whom he shall minister in the
flesh; for the Spirit is the same, yesterday, today, and forever.

And the way is prepared from the fall of man, and salvation is
free.

2 Nephi 2:5
 5 And men are instructed sufficiently that they know good from
evil.  And the law is given unto men.  And by the law no flesh is
justified; or, by the law men are cut off.  Yea, by the temporal
law they were cut off; and also, by the spiritual law they perish
from that which is good, and become miserable forever.

2 Nephi 2:6
 6 Wherefore, redemption cometh in and through the Holy Messiah;
for he is full of grace and truth.

2 Nephi 2:7
 7 Behold, he offereth himself a sacrifice for sin, to answer the
ends of the law, unto all those who have a broken heart and a
contrite spirit; and unto none else can the ends of the law be
answered.

2 Nephi 2:8
 8 Wherefore, how great the importance to make these things known
unto the inhabitants of the earth, that they may know that there
is no flesh that can dwell in the presence of God, save it be
through the merits, and mercy, and grace of the Holy Messiah, who
layeth down his life according to the flesh, and taketh it again
by the power of the Spirit, that he may bring to pass the
resurrection of the dead, being the first that should rise.

2 Nephi 2:9
 9 Wherefore, he is the first-fruits unto God, inasmuch as he
shall make intercession for all the children of men; and they
that believe in him shall be saved.

2 Nephi 2:10
 10 And because of the intercession for all, all men come unto
God; wherefore, they stand in the presence of him to be judged of
him according to the truth and holiness which is in him. 
Wherefore, the ends of the law which the Holy One hath given,
unto the inflicting of the punishment which is affixed, which
punishment that is affixed is in opposition to that of the
happiness which is affixed, to answer the ends of the atonement--

2 Nephi 2:11
 11 For it must needs be, that there is an opposition in all
things.  If not so, my first-born in the wilderness,
righteousness could not be brought to pass, neither wickedness,
neither holiness nor misery, neither good nor bad.  Wherefore,
all things must needs be a compound in one; wherefore, if it
should be one body it must needs remain as dead, having no life
neither death, nor corruption nor incorruption, happiness nor
misery, neither sense nor insensibility.

2 Nephi 2:12
 12 Wherefore, it must needs have been created for a thing of
naught; wherefore there would have been no purpose in the end of
its creation.  Wherefore, this thing must needs destroy the
wisdom of God and his eternal purposes, and also the power, and
the mercy, and the justice of God.

2 Nephi 2:13
 13 And if ye shall say there is no law, ye shall also say there
is no sin.  If ye shall say there is no sin, ye shall also say
there is no righteousness.  And if there be no righteousness
there be no happiness.  And if there be no righteousness nor
happiness there be no punishment nor misery.  And if these things
are not there is no God.  And if there is no God we are not,
neither the earth; for there could have been no creation of
things, neither to act nor to be acted upon; wherefore, all
things must have vanished away.

2 Nephi 2:14
 14 And now, my sons, I speak unto you these things for your
profit and learning; for there is a God, and he hath created all
things, both the heavens and the earth, and all things that in
them are, both things to act and things to be acted upon.

2 Nephi 2:15
 15 And to bring about his eternal purposes in the end of man,
after he had created our first parents, and the beasts of the
field and the fowls of the air, and in fine, all things which are
created, it must needs be that there was an opposition; even the
forbidden fruit in opposition to the tree of life; the one being
sweet and the other bitter.

2 Nephi 2:16
 16 Wherefore, the Lord God gave unto man that he should act for
himself.  Wherefore, man could not act for himself save it should
be that he was enticed by the one or the other.

2 Nephi 2:17
 17 And I, Lehi, according to the things which I have read, must
needs suppose that an angel of God, according to that which is
written, had fallen from heaven; wherefore, he became a devil,
having sought that which was evil before God.

2 Nephi 2:18
 18 And because he had fallen from heaven, and had become
miserable forever, he sought also the misery of all mankind. 
Wherefore, he said unto Eve, yea, even that old serpent, who is
the devil, who is the father of all lies, wherefore he said:
Partake of the forbidden fruit, and ye shall not die, but ye
shall be as God, knowing good and evil.

2 Nephi 2:19
 19 And after Adam and Eve had partaken of the forbidden fruit
they were driven out of the garden of Eden, to till the earth.

2 Nephi 2:20
 20 And they have brought forth children; yea, even the family of
all the earth.

2 Nephi 2:21
 21 And the days of the children of men were prolonged, according
to the will of God, that they might repent while in the flesh;
wherefore, their state became a state of probation, and their
time was lengthened, according to the commandments which the Lord
God gave unto the children of men.  For he gave commandment that
all men must repent; for he showed unto all men that they were
lost, because of the transgression of their parents.

2 Nephi 2:22
 22 And now, behold, if Adam had not transgressed he would not
have fallen, but he would have remained in the garden of Eden. 
And all things which were created must have remained in the same
state in which they were after they were created; and they must
have remained forever, and had no end.

2 Nephi 2:23
 23 And they would have had no children; wherefore they would
have remained in a state of innocence, having no joy, for they
knew no misery; doing no good, for they knew no sin.

2 Nephi 2:24
 24 But behold, all things have been done in the wisdom of him
who knoweth all things.

2 Nephi 2:25
 25 Adam fell that men might be; and men are, that they might
have joy.

2 Nephi 2:26
 26 And the Messiah cometh in the fulness of time, that he may
redeem the children of men from the fall.  And because that they
are redeemed from the fall they have become free forever, knowing
good from evil; to act for themselves and not to be acted upon,
save it be by the punishment of the law at the great and last
day, according to the commandments which God hath given.

2 Nephi 2:27
 27 Wherefore, men are free according to the flesh; and all
things are given them which are expedient unto man.  And they are
free to choose liberty and eternal life, through the great
Mediator of all men, or to choose captivity and death, according
to the captivity and power of the devil; for he seeketh that all
men might be miserable like unto himself.

2 Nephi 2:28
 28 And now, my sons, I would that ye should look to the great
Mediator, and hearken unto his great commandments; and be
faithful unto his words, and choose eternal life, according to
the will of his Holy Spirit;

2 Nephi 2:29
 29 And not choose eternal death, according to the will of the
flesh and the evil which is therein, which giveth the spirit of
the devil power to captivate, to bring you down to hell, that he
may reign over you in his own kingdom.

2 Nephi 2:30
 30 I have spoken these few words unto you all, my sons, in the
last days of my probation; and I have chosen the good part,
according to the words of the prophet.  And I have none other
object save it be the everlasting welfare of your souls.  Amen.

2 Nephi 3
Chapter 3

2 Nephi 3:1
 1 And now I speak unto you, Joseph, my last-born.  Thou wast
born in the wilderness of mine afflictions; yea, in the days of
my greatest sorrow did thy mother bear thee.

2 Nephi 3:2
 2 And may the Lord consecrate also unto thee this land, which is
a most precious land, for thine inheritance and the inheritance
of thy seed with thy brethren, for thy security forever, if it so
be that ye shall keep the commandments of the Holy One of Israel.

2 Nephi 3:3
 3 And now, Joseph, my last-born, whom I have brought out of the
wilderness of mine afflictions, may the Lord bless thee forever,
for thy seed shall not utterly be destroyed.

2 Nephi 3:4
 4 For behold, thou art the fruit of my loins; and I am a
descendant of Joseph who was carried captive into Egypt.  And
great were the covenants of the Lord which he made unto Joseph.

2 Nephi 3:5
 5 Wherefore, Joseph truly saw our day.  And he obtained a
promise of the Lord, that out of the fruit of his loins the Lord
God would raise up a righteous branch unto the house of Israel;
not the Messiah, but a branch which was to be broken off,
nevertheless, to be remembered in the covenants of the Lord that
the Messiah should be made manifest unto them in the latter days,
in the spirit of power, unto the bringing of them out of darkness
unto light--yea, out of hidden darkness and out of captivity unto
freedom.

2 Nephi 3:6
 6 For Joseph truly testified, saying: A seer shall the Lord my
God raise up, who shall be a choice seer unto the fruit of my
loins.

2 Nephi 3:7
 7 Yea, Joseph truly said: Thus saith the Lord unto me: A choice
seer will I raise up out of the fruit of thy loins; and he shall
be esteemed highly among the fruit of thy loins.  And unto him
will I give commandment that he shall do a work for the fruit of
thy loins, his brethren, which shall be of great worth unto them,
even to the bringing of them to the knowledge of the covenants
which I have made with thy fathers.

2 Nephi 3:8
 8 And I will give unto him a commandment that he shall do none
other work, save the work which I shall command him.  And I will
make him great in mine eyes; for he shall do my work.

2 Nephi 3:9
 9 And he shall be great like unto Moses, whom I have said I
would raise up unto you, to deliver my people, O house of Israel.

2 Nephi 3:10
 10 And Moses will I raise up, to deliver thy people out of the
land of Egypt.

2 Nephi 3:11
 11 But a seer will I raise up out of the fruit of thy loins; and
unto him will I give power to bring forth my word unto the seed
of thy loins--and not to the bringing forth my word only, saith
the Lord, but to the convincing them of my word, which shall have
already gone forth among them.

2 Nephi 3:12
 12 Wherefore, the fruit of thy loins shall write; and the fruit
of the loins of Judah shall write; and that which shall be
written by the fruit of thy loins, and also that which shall be
written by the fruit of the loins of Judah, shall grow together,
unto the confounding of false doctrines and laying down of
contentions, and establishing peace among the fruit of thy loins,
and bringing them to the knowledge of their fathers in the latter
days, and also to the knowledge of my covenants, saith the Lord.

2 Nephi 3:13
 13 And out of weakness he shall be made strong, in that day when
my work shall commence among all my people, unto the restoring
thee, O house of Israel, saith the Lord.

2 Nephi 3:14
 14 And thus prophesied Joseph, saying: Behold, that seer will
the Lord bless; and they that seek to destroy him shall be
confounded; for this promise, which I have obtained of the Lord,
of the fruit of my loins, shall be fulfilled.  Behold, I am sure
of the fulfilling of this promise;

2 Nephi 3:15
 15 And his name shall be called after me; and it shall be after
the name of his father.  And he shall be like unto me; for the
thing, which the Lord shall bring forth by his hand, by the power
of the Lord shall bring my people unto salvation.

2 Nephi 3:16
 16 Yea, thus prophesied Joseph: I am sure of this thing, even as
I am sure of the promise of Moses; for the Lord hath said unto
me, I will preserve thy seed forever.

2 Nephi 3:17
 17 And the Lord hath said: I will raise up a Moses; and I will
give power unto him in a rod; and I will give judgment unto him
in writing.  Yet I will not loose his tongue, that he shall speak
much, for I will not make him mighty in speaking.  But I will
write unto him my law, by the finger of mine own hand; and I will
make a spokesman for him.

2 Nephi 3:18
 18 And the Lord said unto me also: I will raise up unto the
fruit of thy loins; and I will make for him a spokesman.  And I,
behold, I will give unto him that he shall write the writing of
the fruit of thy loins, unto the fruit of thy loins; and the
spokesman of thy loins shall declare it.

2 Nephi 3:19
 19 And the words which he shall write shall be the words which
are expedient in my wisdom should go forth unto the fruit of thy
loins.  And it shall be as if the fruit of thy loins had cried
unto them from the dust; for I know their faith.

2 Nephi 3:20
 20 And they shall cry from the dust; yea, even repentance unto
their brethren, even after many generations have gone by them. 
And it shall come to pass that their cry shall go, even according
to the simpleness of their words.

2 Nephi 3:21
 21 Because of their faith their words shall proceed forth out of
my mouth unto their brethren who are the fruit of thy loins; and
the weakness of their words will I make strong in their faith,
unto the remembering of my covenant which I made unto thy
fathers.

2 Nephi 3:22
 22 And now, behold, my son Joseph, after this manner did my
father of old prophesy.

2 Nephi 3:23
 23 Wherefore, because of this covenant thou art blessed; for thy
seed shall not be destroyed, for they shall hearken unto the
words of the book.

2 Nephi 3:24
 24 And there shall rise up one mighty among them, who shall do
much good, both in word and in deed, being an instrument in the
hands of God, with exceeding faith, to work mighty wonders, and
do that thing which is great in the sight of God, unto the
bringing to pass much restoration unto the house of Israel, and
unto the seed of thy brethren.

2 Nephi 3:25
 25 And now, blessed art thou, Joseph.  Behold, thou art little;
wherefore hearken unto the words of thy brother, Nephi, and it
shall be done unto thee even according to the words which I have
spoken.  Remember the words of thy dying father.  Amen.

2 Nephi 4
Chapter 4

2 Nephi 4:1
 1 And now, I, Nephi, speak concerning the prophecies of which my
father hath spoken, concerning Joseph, who was carried into
Egypt.

2 Nephi 4:2
 2 For behold, he truly prophesied concerning all his seed.  And
the prophecies which he wrote, there are not many greater.  And
he prophesied concerning us, and our future generations; and they
are written upon the plates of brass.

2 Nephi 4:3
 3 Wherefore, after my father had made an end of speaking
concerning the prophecies of Joseph, he called the children of
Laman, his sons, and his daughters, and said unto them: Behold,
my sons, and my daughters, who are the sons and the daughters of
my first-born, I would that ye should give ear unto my words.

2 Nephi 4:4
 4 For the Lord God hath said that: Inasmuch as ye shall keep my
commandments ye shall prosper in the land; and inasmuch as ye
will not keep my commandments ye shall be cut off from my
presence.

2 Nephi 4:5
 5 But behold, my sons and my daughters, I cannot go down to my
grave save I should leave a blessing upon you; for behold, I know
that if ye are brought up in the way ye should go ye will not
depart from it.

2 Nephi 4:6
 6 Wherefore, if ye are cursed, behold, I leave my blessing upon
you, that the cursing may be taken from you and be answered upon
the heads of your parents.

2 Nephi 4:7
 7 Wherefore, because of my blessing the Lord God will not suffer
that ye shall perish; wherefore, he will be merciful unto you and
unto your seed forever.

2 Nephi 4:8
 8 And it came to pass that after my father had made an end of
speaking to the sons and daughters of Laman, he caused the sons
and daughters of Lemuel to be brought before him.

2 Nephi 4:9
 9 And he spake unto them, saying: Behold, my sons and my
daughters, who are the sons and the daughters of my second son;
behold I leave unto you the same blessing which I left unto the
sons and daughters of Laman; wherefore, thou shalt not utterly be
destroyed; but in the end thy seed shall be blessed.

2 Nephi 4:10
 10 And it came to pass that when my father had made an end of
speaking unto them, behold, he spake unto the sons of Ishmael,
yea, and even all his household.

2 Nephi 4:11
 11 And after he had made an end of speaking unto them, he spake
unto Sam, saying: Blessed art thou, and thy seed; for thou shall
inherit the land like unto thy brother Nephi.  And thy seed shall
be numbered with his seed; and thou shalt be even like unto thy
brother, and thy seed like unto his seed; and thou shalt be
blessed in all thy days.

2 Nephi 4:12
 12 And it came to pass after my father, Lehi, had spoken unto
all his household, according to the feelings of his heart and the
Spirit of the Lord which was in him, he waxed old.  And it came
to pass that he died, and was buried.

2 Nephi 4:13
 13 And it came to pass that not many days after his death, Laman
and Lemuel and the sons of Ishmael were angry with me because of
the admonitions of the Lord.

2 Nephi 4:14
 14 For I, Nephi, was constrained to speak unto them, according
to his word; for I had spoken many things unto them, and also my
father, before his death; many of which sayings are written upon
mine other plates; for a more history part are written upon mine
other plates.

2 Nephi 4:15
 15 And upon these I write the things of my soul, and many of the
scriptures which are engraven upon the plates of brass.  For my
soul delighteth in the scriptures, and my heart pondereth them,
and writeth them for the learning and the profit of my children.

2 Nephi 4:16
 16 Behold, my soul delighteth in the things of the Lord; and my
heart pondereth continually upon the things which I have seen and
heard.

2 Nephi 4:17
 17 Nevertheless, notwithstanding the great goodness of the Lord,
in showing me his great and marvelous works, my heart exclaimeth:
O wretched man that I am!  Yea, my heart sorroweth because of my
flesh; my soul grieveth because of mine iniquities.

2 Nephi 4:18
 18 I am encompassed about, because of the temptations and the
sins which do so easily beset me.

2 Nephi 4:19
 19 And when I desire to rejoice, my heart groaneth because of my
sins; nevertheless, I know in whom I have trusted.

2 Nephi 4:20
 20 My God hath been my support; he hath led me through mine
afflictions in the wilderness; and he hath preserved me upon the
waters of the great deep.

2 Nephi 4:21
 21 He hath filled me with his love, even unto the consuming of
my flesh.

2 Nephi 4:22
 22 He hath confounded mine enemies, unto the causing of them to
quake before me.

2 Nephi 4:23
 23 Behold, he hath heard my cry by day, and he hath given me
knowledge by visions in the nighttime.

2 Nephi 4:24
 24 And by day have I waxed bold in mighty prayer before him;
yea, my voice have I sent up on high; and angels came down and
ministered unto me.

2 Nephi 4:25
 25 And upon the wings of his Spirit hath my body been carried
away upon exceedingly high mountains.  And mine eyes have beheld
great things, yea, even too great for man; therefore I was bidden
that I should not write them.

2 Nephi 4:26
 26 O then, if I have seen so great things, if the Lord in his
condescension unto the children of men hath visited men in so
much mercy, why should my heart weep and my soul linger in the
valley of sorrow, and my flesh waste away, and my strength
slacken, because of mine afflictions?

2 Nephi 4:27
 27 And why should I yield to sin, because of my flesh?  Yea, why
should I give way to temptations, that the evil one have place in
my heart to destroy my peace and afflict my soul?  Why am I angry
because of mine enemy?

2 Nephi 4:28
 28 Awake, my soul!  No longer droop in sin.  Rejoice, O my
heart, and give place no more for the enemy of my soul.

2 Nephi 4:29
 29 Do not anger again because of mine enemies.  Do not slacken
my strength because of mine afflictions.

2 Nephi 4:30
 30 Rejoice, O my heart, and cry unto the Lord, and say: O Lord,
I will praise thee forever; yea, my soul will rejoice in thee, my
God, and the rock of my salvation.

2 Nephi 4:31
 31 O Lord, wilt thou redeem my soul?  Wilt thou deliver me out
of the hands of mine enemies?  Wilt thou make me that I may shake
at the appearance of sin?

2 Nephi 4:32
 32 May the gates of hell be shut continually before me, because
that my heart is broken and my spirit is contrite!  O Lord, wilt
thou not shut the gates of thy righteousness before me, that I
may walk in the path of the low valley, that I may be strict in
the plain road!

2 Nephi 4:33
 33 O Lord, wilt thou encircle me around in the robe of thy
righteousness!  O Lord, wilt thou make a way for mine escape
before mine enemies!  Wilt thou make my path straight before me! 
Wilt thou not place a stumbling block in my way--but that thou
wouldst clear my way before me, and hedge not up my way, but the
ways of mine enemy.

2 Nephi 4:34
 34 O Lord, I have trusted in thee, and I will trust in thee
forever.  I will not put my trust in the arm of flesh; for I know
that cursed is he that putteth his trust in the arm of flesh. 
Yea, cursed is he that putteth his trust in man or maketh flesh
his arm.

2 Nephi 4:35
 35 Yea, I know that God will give liberally to him that asketh. 
Yea, my God will give me, if I ask not amiss; therefore I will
lift up my voice unto thee; yea, I will cry unto thee, my God,
the rock of my righteousness.  Behold, my voice shall forever
ascend up unto thee, my rock and mine everlasting God.  Amen.
