Behold, here are
the waters of Mormon (for thus were they called) and now, as ye
are desirous to come into the fold of God, and to be called his
people, and are willing to bear one another's burdens, that they
may be light;

Mosiah 18:9
 9 Yea, and are willing to mourn with those that mourn; yea, and
comfort those that stand in need of comfort, and to stand as
witnesses of God at all times and in all things, and in all
places that ye may be in, even until death, that ye may be
redeemed of God, and be numbered with those of the first
resurrection, that ye may have eternal life--

Mosiah 18:10
 10 Now I say unto you, if this be the desire of your hearts,
what have you against being baptized in the name of the Lord, as
a witness before him that ye have entered into a covenant with
him, that ye will serve him and keep his commandments, that he
may pour out his Spirit more abundantly upon you?




O Lord, pour out thy Spirit upon thy servant, that he may
do this work with holiness of heart.

Mosiah 18:13
 13 And when he had said these words, the Spirit of the Lord was
upon him, and he said: Helam, I baptize thee, having authority
from the Almighty God, as a testimony that ye have entered into a
covenant to serve him until you are dead as to the mortal body;
and may the Spirit of the Lord be poured out upon you; and may he
grant unto you eternal life, through the redemption of Christ,
whom he has prepared from the foundation of the world.




Behold, it is not expedient that we
should have a king; for thus saith the Lord: Ye shall not esteem
one flesh above another, or one man shall not think himself above
another; therefore I say unto you it is not expedient that ye
should have a king.

Mosiah 23:8
 8 Nevertheless, if it were possible that ye could always have
just men to be your kings it would be well for you to have a
king.

Mosiah 23:9
 9 But remember the iniquity of king Noah and his priests; and I
myself was caught in a snare, and did many things which were
abominable in the sight of the Lord, which caused me sore
repentance;

Mosiah 23:10
 10 Nevertheless, after much tribulation, the Lord did hear my
cries, and did answer my prayers, and has made me an instrument
in his hands in bringing so many of you to a knowledge of his
truth.

Mosiah 23:11
 11 Nevertheless, in this I do not glory, for I am unworthy to
glory of myself.

Mosiah 23:12
 12 And now I say unto you, ye have been oppressed by king Noah,
and have been in bondage to him and his priests, and have been
brought into iniquity by them; therefore ye were bound with the
bands of iniquity.

Mosiah 23:13
 13 And now as ye have been delivered by the power of God out of
these bonds; yea, even out of the hands of king Noah and his
people, and also from the bonds of iniquity, even so I desire
that ye should stand fast in this liberty wherewith ye have been
made free, and that ye trust no man to be a king over you.

Mosiah 23:14
 14 And also trust no one to be your teacher nor your minister,
except he be a man of God, walking in his ways and keeping his
commandments.

Mosiah 23:15
 15 Thus did Alma teach his people, that every man should love
his neighbor as himself, that there should be no contention among
them.



Behold, here are many whom we have
brought before thee, who are accused of their brethren; yea, and
they have been taken in divers iniquities.  And they do not
repent of their iniquities; therefore we have brought them before
thee, that thou mayest judge them according to their crimes.


