
Helaman 5:6
 6 Behold, my sons, I desire that ye should remember to keep the
commandments of God; and I would that ye should declare unto the
people these words.  Behold, I have given unto you the names of
our first parents who came out of the land of Jerusalem; and this
I have done that when you remember your names ye may remember
them; and when ye remember them ye may remember their works; and
when ye remember their works ye may know how that it is said, and
also written, that they were good.

Helaman 5:7
 7 Therefore, my sons, I would that ye should do that which is
good, that it may be said of you, and also written, even as it
has been said and written of them.

Helaman 5:8
 8 And now my sons, behold I have somewhat more to desire of you,
which desire is, that ye may not do these things that ye may
boast, but that ye may do these things to lay up for yourselves a
treasure in heaven, yea, which is eternal, and which fadeth not
away; yea, that ye may have that precious gift of eternal life,
which we have reason to suppose hath been given to our fathers.

Helaman 5:9
 9 O remember, remember, my sons, the words which king Benjamin
spake unto his people; yea, remember that there is no other way
nor means whereby man can be saved, only through the atoning
blood of Jesus Christ, who shall come, yea, remember that he
cometh to redeem the world.

Helaman 5:10
 10 And remember also the words which Amulek spake unto Zeezrom,
in the city of Ammonihah; for he said unto him that the Lord
surely should come to redeem his people, but that he should not
come to redeem them in their sins, but to redeem them from their
sins.

Helaman 5:11
 11 And he hath power given unto him from the Father to redeem
them from their sins because of repentance; therefore he hath
sent his angels to declare the tidings of the conditions of
repentance, which bringeth unto the power of the Redeemer, unto
the salvation of their souls.

Helaman 5:12
 12 And now, my sons, remember, remember that it is upon the rock
of our Redeemer, who is Christ, the Son of God, that ye must
build your foundation; that when the devil shall send forth his
mighty winds, yea, his shafts in the whirlwind, yea, when all his
hail and his mighty storm shall beat upon you, it shall have no
power over you to drag you down to the gulf of misery and endless
wo, because of the rock upon which ye are built, which is a sure
foundation, a foundation whereon if men build they cannot fall.
