
Mosiah 9
Chapter 9

Mosiah 9:1
 1 I, Zeniff, having been taught in all the language of the
Nephites, and having had a knowledge of the land of Nephi, or of
the land of our fathers' first inheritance, and having been sent
as a spy among the Lamanites that I might spy out their forces,
that our army might come upon them and destroy them--but when I
saw that which was good among them I was desirous that they
should not be destroyed.

Mosiah 9:2
 2 Therefore, I contended with my brethren in the wilderness for
I would that our ruler should make a treaty with them; but he
being an austere and a bloodthirsty man commanded that I should
be slain; but I was rescued by the shedding of much blood; for
father fought against father, and brother against brother, until
the greater number of our army was destroyed in the wilderness;
and we returned, those of us that were spared, to the land of
Zarahemla, to relate that tale to their wives and their children.

Mosiah 9:3
 3 And yet, I being over-zealous to inherit the land of our
fathers, collected as many as were desirous to go up to possess
the land, and started again on our journey into the wilderness to
go up to the land; but we were smitten with famine and sore
afflictions; for we were slow to remember the Lord our God.

Mosiah 9:4
 4 Nevertheless, after many days' wandering in the wilderness we
pitched our tents in the place where our brethren were slain,
which was near to the land of our fathers.

Mosiah 9:5
 5 And it came to pass that I went again with four of my men into
the city, in unto the king, that I might know of the disposition
of the king, and that I might know if I might go in with my
people and possess the land in peace.

Mosiah 9:6
 6 And I went in unto the king, and he covenanted with me that I
might possess the land of Lehi-Nephi, and the land of Shilom.

Mosiah 9:7
 7 And he also commanded that his people should depart out of the
land, and I and my people went into the land that we might
possess it.

Mosiah 9:8
 8 And we began to build buildings, and to repair the walls of
the city, yea, even the walls of the city of Lehi-Nephi, and the
city of Shilom.

Mosiah 9:9
 9 And we began to till the ground, yea, even with all manner of
seeds, with seeds of corn, and of wheat, and of barley, and with
neas, and with sheum, and with seeds of all manner of fruits; and
we did begin to multiply and prosper in the land.

Mosiah 9:10
 10 Now it was the cunning and the craftiness of king Laman, to
bring my people into bondage, that he yielded up the land that we
might possess it.

Mosiah 9:11
 11 Therefore it came to pass, that after we had dwelt in the
land for the space of twelve years that king Laman began to grow
uneasy, lest by any means my people should wax strong in the
land, and that they could not overpower them and bring them into
bondage.

Mosiah 9:12
 12 Now they were a lazy and an idolatrous people; therefore they
were desirous to bring us into bondage, that they might glut
themselves with the labors of our hands; yea, that they might
feast themselves upon the flocks of our fields.

Mosiah 9:13
 13 Therefore it came to pass that king Laman began to stir up
his people that they should contend with my people; therefore
there began to be wars and contentions in the land.

Mosiah 9:14
 14 For, in the thirteenth year of my reign in the land of Nephi,
away on the south of the land of Shilom, when my people were
watering and feeding their flocks, and tilling their lands, a
numerous host of Lamanites came upon them and began to slay them,
and to take off their flocks, and the corn of their fields.

Mosiah 9:15
 15 Yea, and it came to pass that they fled, all that were not
overtaken, even into the city of Nephi, and did call upon me for
protection.

Mosiah 9:16
 16 And it came to pass that I did arm them with bows, and with
arrows, with swords, and with cimeters, and with clubs, and with
slings, and with all manner of weapons which we could invent, and
I and my people did go forth against the Lamanites to battle.

Mosiah 9:17
 17 Yea, in the strength of the Lord did we go forth to battle
against the Lamanites; for I and my people did cry mightily to
the Lord that he would deliver us out of the hands of our
enemies, for we were awakened to a remembrance of the deliverance
of our fathers.

Mosiah 9:18
 18 And God did hear our cries and did answer our prayers; and we
did go forth in his might; yea, we did go forth against the
Lamanites, and in one day and a night we did slay three thousand
and forty-three; we did slay them even until we had driven them
out of our land.

Mosiah 9:19
 19 And I, myself, with mine own hands, did help to bury their
dead.  And behold, to our great sorrow and lamentation, two
hundred and seventy-nine of our brethren were slain.

Mosiah 10
Chapter 10

Mosiah 10:1
 1 And it came to pass that we again began to establish the
kingdom and we again began to possess the land in peace.  And I
caused that there should be weapons of war made of every kind,
that thereby I might have weapons for my people against the time
the Lamanites should come up again to war against my people.

Mosiah 10:2
 2 And I set guards round about the land, that the Lamanites
might not come upon us again unawares and destroy us; and thus I
did guard my people and my flocks, and keep them from falling
into the hands of our enemies.

Mosiah 10:3
 3 And it came to pass that we did inherit the land of our
fathers for many years, yea, for the space of twenty and two
years.

Mosiah 10:4
 4 And I did cause that the men should till the ground, and raise
all manner of grain and all manner of fruit of every kind.

Mosiah 10:5
 5 And I did cause that the women should spin, and toil, and
work, and work all manner of fine linen, yea, and cloth of every
kind, that we might clothe our nakedness; and thus we did prosper
in the land--thus we did have continual peace in the land for the
space of twenty and two years.

Mosiah 10:6
 6 And it came to pass that king Laman died, and his son began to
reign in his stead.  And he began to stir his people up in
rebellion against my people; therefore they began to prepare for
war, and to come up to battle against my people.

Mosiah 10:7
 7 But I had sent my spies out round about the land of Shemlon,
that I might discover their preparations, that I might guard
against them, that they might not come upon my people and destroy
them.

Mosiah 10:8
 8 And it came to pass that they came up upon the north of the
land of Shilom, with their numerous hosts, men armed with bows,
and with arrows, and with swords, and with cimeters, and with
stones, and with slings; and they had their heads shaved that
they were naked; and they were girded with a leathern girdle
about their loins.

Mosiah 10:9
 9 And it came to pass that I caused that the women and children
of my people should be hid in the wilderness; and I also caused
that all my old men that could bear arms, and also all my young
men that were able to bear arms, should gather themselves
together to go to battle against the Lamanites; and I did place
them in their ranks, every man according to his age.

Mosiah 10:10
 10 And it came to pass that we did go up to battle against the
Lamanites; and I, even I, in my old age, did go up to battle
against the Lamanites.  And it came to pass that we did go up in
the strength of the Lord to battle.

Mosiah 10:11
 11 Now, the Lamanites knew nothing concerning the Lord, nor the
strength of the Lord, therefore they depended upon their own
strength.  Yet they were a strong people, as to the strength of
men.

Mosiah 10:12
 12 They were a wild, and ferocious, and a blood-thirsty people,
believing in the tradition of their fathers, which is
this--Believing that they were driven out of the land of
Jerusalem because of the iniquities of their fathers, and that
they were wronged in the wilderness by their brethren, and they
were also wronged while crossing the sea;

Mosiah 10:13
 13 And again, that they were wronged while in the land of their
first inheritance, after they had crossed the sea, and all this
because that Nephi was more faithful in keeping the commandments
of the Lord--therefore he was favored of the Lord, for the Lord
heard his prayers and answered them, and he took the lead of
their journey in the wilderness.

Mosiah 10:14
 14 And his brethren were wroth with him because they understood
not the dealings of the Lord; they were also wroth with him upon
the waters because they hardened their hearts against the Lord.

Mosiah 10:15
 15 And again, they were wroth with him when they had arrived in
the promised land, because they said that he had taken the ruling
of the people out of their hands; and they sought to kill him.

Mosiah 10:16
 16 And again, they were wroth with him because he departed into
the wilderness as the Lord had commanded him, and took the
records which were engraven on the plates of brass, for they said
that he robbed them.

Mosiah 10:17
 17 And thus they have taught their children that they should
hate them, and that they should murder them, and that they should
rob and plunder them, and do all they could to destroy them;
therefore they have an eternal hatred towards the children of
Nephi.

Mosiah 10:18
 18 For this very cause has king Laman, by his cunning, and lying
craftiness, and his fair promises, deceived me, that I have
brought this my people up into this land, that they may destroy
them; yea, and we have suffered these many years in the land.

Mosiah 10:19
 19 And now I, Zeniff, after having told all these things unto my
people concerning the Lamanites, I did stimulate them to go to
battle with their might, putting their trust in the Lord;
therefore, we did contend with them, face to face.

Mosiah 10:20
 20 And it came to pass that we did drive them again out of our
land; and we slew them with a great slaughter, even so many that
we did not number them.

Mosiah 10:21
 21 And it came to pass that we returned again to our own land,
and my people again began to tend their flocks, and to till their
ground.

Mosiah 10:22
 22 And now I, being old, did confer the kingdom upon one of my
sons; therefore, I say no more.  And may the Lord bless my
people.  Amen.