O Lord, I have performed the work which thou hast
commanded me, and I have made the barges according as thou hast
directed me.

Ether 2:19
 19 And behold, O Lord, in them there is no light; whither shall
we steer?  And also we shall perish, for in them we cannot
breathe, save it is the air which is in them; therefore we shall
perish.

O Lord, behold I
have done even as thou hast commanded me; and I have prepared the
vessels for my people, and behold there is no light in them. 
Behold, O Lord, wilt thou suffer that we shall cross this great
water in darkness?


Ether 3:2
 2 O Lord, thou hast said that we must be encompassed about by
the floods.  Now behold, O Lord, and do not be angry with thy
servant because of his weakness before thee; for we know that
thou art holy and dwellest in the heavens, and that we are
unworthy before thee; because of the fall our natures have become
evil continually; nevertheless, O Lord, thou hast given us a
commandment that we must call upon thee, that from thee we may
receive according to our desires.

Ether 3:3
 3 Behold, O Lord, thou hast smitten us because of our iniquity,
and hast driven us forth, and for these many years we have been
in the wilderness; nevertheless, thou hast been merciful unto us.

O Lord, look upon me in pity, and turn away thine anger from this
thy people, and suffer not that they shall go forth across this
raging deep in darkness; but behold these things which I have
molten out of the rock.

Ether 3:4
 4 And I know, O Lord, that thou hast all power, and can do
whatsoever thou wilt for the benefit of man; therefore touch
these stones, O Lord, with thy finger, and prepare them that they
may shine forth in darkness; and they shall shine forth unto us
in the vessels which we have prepared, that we may have light
while we shall cross the sea.

Ether 3:5
 5 Behold, O Lord, thou canst do this.  We know that thou art
able to show forth great power, which looks small unto the
understanding of men.


I saw the finger of the Lord, and
I feared lest he should smite me; for I knew not that the Lord
had flesh and blood.

Yea, Lord, I know that thou speakest the
truth, for thou art a God of truth, and canst not lie.






